
=== PAGE 1 ===
1188 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
A High-Performance GaN Power Module With
Parallel Packaging for High-Current and Low-
V oltage Traction Inverter Applications
Manh Tuan Tran
 , Student Member, IEEE, Dai Duong Tran, Kritika Deepak
 , Gamze Egin Martin
 ,
Olcay Bay
 , Student Member, IEEE, Mohamed El Baghdadi
 , Member, IEEE,
and Omar Hegazy
 , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— Gallium nitride (GaN) power semiconductors are
being explored as promising alternatives for the next generation
of high-power traction inverters, suitable for both high- and low-
voltage applications. In such scenarios, the peak current can
reach several hundred amps. Hence, using multiple GaN high-
electron-mobility transistor (HEMT) chips or dies in parallel
is definitely a design approach to extend power capacity and
minimize power losses. However, the parallelization and pack-
aging structure of GaN devices presents numerous challenges.
Achieving balanced dynamic and static current sharing between
paralleled devices, as well as ensuring robust gate driving
signals, is indispensable for reliable operation during high d V/d t
and d i/d t transients, particularly with switching noise-sensitive
gate–source threshold voltages. In addition, thermal dissipation
and mechanical stress must fulfill industrial requirements. This
article introduces a compact 100 V/360-A GaN power module
specifically designed for packaging on insulated metal substrates
(IMSs) or direct-bonded copper (DBC). The proposed packag-
ing approach offers superior electrical performance, excellent
thermal dissipation, minimal mechanical stress, and a cost-
effective solution. Finally, the advantages of the proposed power
module design are validated through various experimental setups,
including a 48 V/328-A double pulse test (DPT), a 48/24-V 3-kW
buck converter implementation, and a 48 V/5-kW three-phase
inverter demonstration.
Index Terms— Gallium nitride high-electron-mobility transis-
tors (GaN HEMTs), high current, paralleling devices, power
module packaging.
I. I NTRODUCTION
A. Motivation
H
IGH-VOL
TAGE 400/800-V traction inverters for elec-
tric vehicles have been a major focus of academic
and industrial research for decades, while light electric
Received 12 October 2023; revised 12 February 2024, 6 August 2024,
and 19 September 2024; accepted 26 September 2024. Date of publication
10 October 2024; date of current version 26 February 2025. This work was
supported by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation
Program with the title of URBANIZED (https://urbanized.eu/) under Grant
101006943. An earlier version of this paper was presented in part at
the 2023 IEEE Vehicle Power and Propulsion Conference (VPPC), Milan,
Italy, October 27, 2023 [DOI: 10.1109/VPPC60535.2023.10403368]. Recom-
mended for publication by Associate Editor Tsuyoshi Funaki. (Corresponding
author: Omar Hegazy.)
The authors are with the Department of Electric Engineering and Energy
Technology, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 1050 Brussels, Belgium, and also with
Flanders Make, 3001 Heverlee, Belgium (e-mail: omar.hegazy@vub.ac.be).
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/JESTPE.2024.3477743.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JESTPE.2024.3477743
vehicles (LEVs) equipped with 48-V low-voltage batteries
are becoming more prevalent in urban areas, thanks to their
affordability, safety, and practicality. These traction inverters,
designed for low-voltage and high-power applications, gener-
ally deliver between 5 and 12 kW of power to the motor.
Their input voltage typically falls between 48 and 72 V ,
resulting in phase-current levels in the range of several hun-
dred amps [1], [2]. Thus, paralleling multiple discrete power
devices has long been an indispensable approach to meet
the demands of high-performance electric vehicle systems.
Over the years, the use of parallel traditional Si MOSFETs
has become a well-established and reliable solution for
low-voltage motor drives, thanks to their mature technology
and reliable operation [2], [3]. However, Si MOSFETs exhibit
limitations, such as high ON-state resistance and low switching
speed.
In contrast, emergent wide bandgap (WBG) devices, with
a focus on gallium nitride high-electron-mobility transistors
(GaN-HEMTs), offer significant advantages, including higher
switching frequency up to a few MHz [4], lower ON-state
resistance, absence of reverse recovery charge, more compact
chip size, and superior temperature tolerance [5], [6], [7],
[8]. In [9], the study highlights that GaN-based inverters
outperform Si-based inverters even in low-frequency sce-
narios, where motor insulation, bearing current, and filter
design concerns limit switching frequency and speed (dV /dt ).
In comparison to Si MOSFETs, enhancement-mode GaN
HEMTs are also considered more suitable for paralleling
multiple chips. This suitability is attributed to the gate voltage
threshold ( Vg(th)) being less sensitive to junction tempera-
ture ( Tj ) fluctuations [5], [6], [10], [11], [12], along with
a positive temperature coefficient and a greater temperature
dependence of RDS (on) [11], [13]. However, the paralleliza-
tion of multiple GaN dies introduces additional challenges,
motivating researchers to address them for high-power appli-
cations [5], [12], [14], [15], [16], [17], [18], [19], [20], [21],
[22]. Many previous studies have primarily focused on power
packaging for both nonparallel and parallel configurations
of two GaN chips, targeting low-current, and high-voltage
applications such as dc–dc converters [5], [7], [18], [23],
[24], [25]. These studies have prioritized electrical perfor-
mance to achieve high switching frequencies, often with less
consideration for other essential factors. However, high-power
© 2024 The Authors. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License.
For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

=== PAGE 2 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1189
Fig. 1. Multiobjective considerations in high-power GaN power module
design.
GaN power module designs require the parallelization of four
or more devices, considering multiple design objectives to
ensure reliable operation under harsh conditions, as illustrated
in Fig. 1.
These key objectives encompass electrical, thermal, and
mechanical performance. In addition, cost-effectiveness, flex-
ibility, and power scalability are essential to making these
design solutions practical and applicable in the automotive
industry. Meeting all design objectives for a GaN-based
power module presents significant challenges. In most failure
scenarios of power module design, high overshoot voltage,
unbalanced current sharing among parallel dies, and unstable
gate–source voltage during transient periods are recognized
as the main causes of power module destruction. Due to the
rapid changes in current (di /dt ) and voltage (dV /dt ) during
switching transients, the negative impact of parasitic compo-
nents becomes significantly more severe in the packaging of
multiple paralleled GaN devices [12], [21]. The asymmetrical
arrangement of components and printed circuit board (PCB)
layout can lead to dynamic current imbalances, especially
during switching transients with currents exceeding hundreds
of amperes. Moreover, the GaN switch’s gate–source voltage is
highly influenced by the parasitic inductances and capacitances
present in the gate loop design. Unlike SiC or Si devices,
which have gate voltages that can tolerate ±20 V and threshold
voltages of more than 4.5 V [26], GaN transistors typically
require lower gate drive voltages, which can vary depending
on specific GaN technologies such as GaN cascode, GaN gate
injection transistor (GIT), or e-mode GaN HEMTs [27]. E-
mode GaN from GaN Systems, for instance, requires substan-
tially lower gate drive voltages at +7/−10 V , with a threshold
value of 1.3 V [6]. Similarly, EPC’s enhancement mode gal-
lium nitride (eGaN) devices have a maximum gate voltage of
+6/−5 V . Consequently, if the power loop and gate driver loop
are not meticulously designed, the switches may have a high
risk of being unintentionally activated. Moreover, concentrated
power losses in compact GaN devices require effective thermal
management solutions. Due to the aforementioned challenges,
packaging techniques developed for paralleling Si/SiC dies
cannot be directly applied to GaN devices.
Fig. 2. Brief comparison of different packaging technologies for paralleling
GaN devices.
B. State-of-the-Art Overview
Existing literature covers various GaN packaging techniques
for high-current applications in both commercial products and
academic research. The majority of previous studies have been
conducted regarding the parallel configuration of 650-V GaN
devices [5]. Nevertheless, there has been comparatively less
research attention on the application of low-voltage 100-V
GaN for motor drives. Table I presents a comparison between
previous studies and our proposed design in terms of volt-
age and current rating, testing results, packaging structure,
power loop inductance, thermal performance, complexity, and
cost-effectiveness for 400- and 48-V applications. The packag-
ing methods for GaN power modules are generally classified
into three groups, as depicted in Fig. 2. The first group
involves the use of direct-bonded copper (DBC) substrates
to attach GaN chips, with aluminum bond wires providing
interconnections. A typical DBC substrate consists of a copper
top layer for electrical connectivity, a ceramic middle layer for
electrical isolation and heat spreading, and a copper bottom
layer soldered to a metal baseplate for mechanical support
and heat dissipation. Ceramic materials using Al 2O3 and AlN
are frequently chosen for their superior electrical isolation and
thermal conductivity properties, with Al2O3 exhibiting thermal
conductivity between 20 and 30 W/mK and AlN ranging
from 120 to 180 W/mK. Hence, this packaging method can
withstand significant thermal and mechanical stresses, making
it ideal for high-power applications reaching up to several
hundred kilowatts [28]. Nevertheless, the design options of
DBC for minimizing and equalizing parasitic inductance in
power loops are quite limited, which leads to inferior switching
performance [15], [21]. An alternative approach is to adopt
FR4-PCBs that provide greater flexibility in the copper trace
layout [12], [22]. This allows for the effective integration of
magnetic flux cancellation techniques in the multilayer PCB
structures to reduce the impact of stray inductance. Thermal
vias establish connections between the layers, enabling the
transfer of heat from surface-mounted devices to alternate
sides of the PCB. Nevertheless, PCBs made of FR4 material
still exhibit notably low thermal conductivity values, ranging
from 0.2 to 0.3 W/mK. Furthermore, paralleling GaN chips
on an FR4-PCB presents the issue of nonuniform dispersion
of thermomechanical stress across individual dies or chips,

=== PAGE 3 ===
1190 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
TABLE I
COMPARISON OF PARALLEL GaN D EVICE STRUCTURES FOR HIGH -CURRENT HALF -BRIDGE POWER MODULE PACKAGING
resulting in uneven temperature distribution within the parallel
structure. Hence, this packaging approach is suitable for a
small number of parallel devices and low-power applications.
By increasing the number of layers in multilayer PCB struc-
tures, the bottleneck of PCB in high-current applications can
be improved. However, it will significantly raise the cost of
fabrication. The third approach for packaging a high-current
GaN power module involves using an insulated metal sub-
strate (IMS), typically made of a copper layer, a dielectric
layer, and an aluminum or copper base designed for effi-
cient heat exchange. Its thermal conductivity varies between
2 and 7 W/mK, corresponding to the thermal characteristics
of the metal base and the dielectric materials. While IMS has
greater thermal resistance compared to DBC, it offers sig-
nificantly higher thermal conductivity than FR4-based PCBs.
In order to increase the design flexibility of the IMS for
achieving low parasitic inductance, the IMS can be integrated
with the FR4-PCB of the gate driving signal and decoupling
capacitor, creating an IMS hybrid structure [5], [16], [17].
Similarly, DBC hybrid structure is the combination of DBC
substrate and FR4-PCB [19], [23], [29]. Nevertheless, the
power loop inductance in this method has not been minimized
due to the thickness of the FR4-PCB and the distance between
the PCB and the IMS or DBC power board.
As illustrated in Fig. 2, the hybrid configuration is generally
a compromise between PCB and DBC solutions, offering a
balance between switching and thermal performance, making
it an attractive solution for medium-power applications.
Regarding the PCB layout structures of GaN devices, the
lateral and vertical configurations are the two most common
layout methods employed in power module designs. In the
lateral structure, the decoupling capacitors and GaN devices
are placed on the same side of the PCB, with the output
switching node connected to either an internal or an alternate
side layer through vias. This conventional lateral half-bridge
layout offers a low-cost and straightforward circuit solution.
However, it poses challenges in achieving a magnetic field
cancellation effect. To reduce the power loop inductance in this
layout, an adjacent inner layer can be added for shielding. The
induced current in the shield layer, which flows in the opposite
direction to the current in the power loop, creates a flux cancel-
lation effect, thereby decreasing the parasitic inductance in the
power commutation loop [24], [25]. Nevertheless, achieving
identical power loop inductances becomes unattainable when
dealing with applications involving the parallelization of mul-
tiple devices. In the vertical layout structures, the decoupling
capacitors are arranged on either the same side or the opposite
side of the GaN switches. The vertical commutation loop is
perpendicular to the board plane, with the traces separated
into different layers of the PCB. This method leverages the
mutual cancellation of magnetic flux to considerably minimize
parasitic inductance. In this layout approach, 4–6 layers are

=== PAGE 4 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1191
typically required, and the power loop inductance is sig-
nificantly influenced by the thickness between the layers.
In addition, the symmetrical power loop layout can be easier
to arrange when paralleling multiple devices. Asymmetrical
layout and variations in device parameters, such as ON-state
resistance RDS (on) and threshold voltage Vth, are identified
as the primary factors contributing to dynamic and static
current imbalances among the devices [30]. The static current
imbalance can be mitigated by the self-balancing mechanisms
inherent in the positive temperature coefficient of RDS (on).
However, the influence of the temperature dependence of
Vth and manufacturing threshold voltage deviation on current
imbalance is not within the scope of this study. Our initial
design concept, as partially presented in [31], included limited
analysis, design guidelines, and testing results. This article
substantially extends that research by introducing an enhanced
hybrid packaging configuration aimed at further reducing
power loop inductance and improving current-carrying capa-
bility. It provides comprehensive design guidelines, extensive
electrothermal simulation results, and experimental validations
of both dynamic and continuous electrical operation for the
proposed design.
C. Contributions of This Study
This article introduces a novel hybrid packaging configura-
tion that incorporates an IMS substrate with multiple parallel
GaN switches and copper bars, all evenly distributed and
soldered together, along with decoupling capacitor boards.
The power board is then stacked with an FR4-driver board
to assemble a 100 V/360-A GaN power module. The aim is
to meet various design objectives for high-power GaN modules
that are adaptable for both 100- and 650-V bottom-cooled
chips, thereby unlocking the potential of GaN devices for
different electric vehicle (EV) drivetrain systems. The key
features of the proposed GaN power module are outlined
below.
1) The even distribution of decoupling capacitors on the
PCBs across very thin copper bars leads to a symmet-
rical design for the power loops, ensuring uniform and
low parasitic inductances.
2) The proposed hybrid IMS structure enables effective
heat dissipation without compromising low power loop
inductances. In addition, this packaging concept effort-
lessly adapts to DBC substrates, enhancing thermal
performance without modification.
3) Parallel GaN chips experience minimal mechanical
stress, reducing thermal differences caused by imbal-
anced pressure from heat sink attachment.
4) Offering a cost-effective and simple packaging approach
with assured reliable switching operation, the power
module maintains a safe margin for VDS overshoot
and low-ringing VGS waveforms under high switching
currents.
5) Featuring a similar input and output terminal arrange-
ment as common industrial power modules, it supports
convenient power extension through modular configura-
tions, making it ideal for a wide range of high-power
motor drive systems.
Fig. 3. Digital framework and design process for developing the proposed
GaN module.
D. Paper Organization
The rest of the article is structured as follows. Section II
introduces the overall digital design framework and package
structure of the proposed GaN half-bridge module, including
design considerations and feasible solutions. Section III identi-
fies the critical parameters that cause failures in power modules
and presents the design of the gate driver. In Section IV,
parasitic components are extracted using Ansys Q3D finite
element analysis (FEA) software. Subsequently, the switch-
ing and thermal performance of the proposed design are
validated using LTSPICE and Ansys Icepak software tools.
Section V explains the fabrication process of the power
module. In Section VI, hardware validation of the power
module is conducted through several experimental setups,
including a double pulse test (DPT), buck converter, and three-
phase inverter. Section VII discusses the results and future
perspectives. Finally, Section VIII concludes the article by
summarizing key findings.
II. D ESIGN STRATEGIES FOR THE
PROPOSED GAN POWER MODULE
A. Design Strategies
To analyze and investigate the electrical and thermal
behavior of power module packaging solutions, analyti-
cal approaches using high-order differential equations have
become impractical due to the intricate multiphysics inter-
actions involved. As depicted in Fig. 3, an electrothermal
finite element simulation framework is employed to reduce

=== PAGE 5 ===
1192 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 4. Circuit diagram of half bridge with four GaN chips in parallel with key packaging parasitic inductances.
Fig. 5. Three-dimensional CAD model of the proposed GaN module. (a) Exploded view of package structure. (b) Isometric view. (c) Cross-sectional area
view of power loop. (d) Side view.
development costs by minimizing the need for multiple phys-
ical prototypes [31], [32].
First, multiple PCB layout configurations for paralleling
GaN devices are created using Altium Designer. The layout is
then exported in ODB++ format and imported into Ansys
SIwave, where adjustments to the geometry, layer thick-
nesses, and materials are made. Following this, Ansys Q3D
is employed to calculate the stray inductances in the power
and driver loops. Second, the DPT simulation is performed in
LTSPICE to analyze the switching characteristics and iden-
tify potential instability issues. The simulation utilizes GaN
device SPICE models provided by manufacturers, along with
parasitic elements extracted from Ansys Q3D. By examining
the switching behavior of VDS and VGS in the GaN module, the
risk of power module failure due to high parasitic inductance
and an imbalanced PCB layout can be effectively predicted.
Third, the thermal performance of the power module is
evaluated using the Ansys Icepak subsimulation tool. Finally,
considering both switching and thermal performance criteria,
the optimal design solution is selected for fabrication.
B. Proposed Power Module Structure and Layout
Considerations
In order to guarantee dynamic and static current sharing
between parallel chips and ensure the reliability of high-power
modules, several crucial factors have been considered in this
design, including maintaining low and symmetrical power/gate
loop inductance, achieving high thermal conductivity, and
withstanding mechanical stress. Fig. 4 depicts the overall
circuit diagram of the power module integrated with the gate
driver, highlighting key parasitic inductances listed in Table II.
Fig. 5(a) presents a detailed exploded view of the structure,
while Fig. 5(b) illustrates the compactness of the proposed
half-bridge power module as demonstrated by the assembled
3-D model. The proposed design employs a novel hybrid IMS
PCB structure with a vertical power loop configuration to

=== PAGE 6 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1193
TABLE II
KEY PARASITIC INDUCTANCES CONSIDERED
enhance flux cancellation and heat dissipation capabilities.
A total of eight GS6100P GaN chips are mounted on a
single-layer IMS board to configure a half-bridge structure.
Unlike previous hybrid PCB structures, where decoupling
capacitors and gate driver ICs are placed together on the same
FR4 PCB and connected to the power board via multipin head-
ers or copper pins [16], [17], [29], the proposed design adopts
a different approach. In this design, the decoupling capacitor
boards are separated, evenly distributed, and vertically con-
nected to each high-side and low-side GaN chip pair through
+dc and −dc copper bars. This results in minimized stray
inductance compared to previous structures. By using low-
profile copper bars and 0.6-mm two-layer capacitor PCBs, the
cross-sectional area of the commutation loop is significantly
reduced, as illustrated in Fig. 5(c). This proposed design also
minimizes the variation in quasi-common source inductance
between each pair of high- and low-side GaN devices. The
copper bars for +dc, −dc, and ac further improve the power
module’s capacity to handle high currents. Fig. 5(d) shows a
side view of the module, where 6 mm brass head pins connect
the gate and source terminals of each GaN device to the gate
driver board. This ensures that the gate signals are evenly
delivered to the switches while preventing any intersection of
dV /dt and di /dt power paths.
The materials and key components of the power board are
listed in Table III.
C. Optimal Power Loop Inductance of Proposed Packaging
Structure
Thanks to the concept of using copper bars for con-
necting vertically decoupling capacitor boards, the proposed
structure offers low power loop inductance. However, there
is still room for optimizing the geometry of the structure.
Fig. 6 demonstrates the cross-sectional view of the pro-
posed power module configuration. The Ansys Q3D FEA
tool is used to quantify the commutation loop inductance of
each combination. Fig. 6 shows the preliminary parameters,
including fixed and adjustable parameters used for optimiza-
tion. Assuming that fringing, skin, and proximity effects
are negligible and adopting the classical equation for the
approximated inductance of PCB [33], [34], the inductance
of the power loop can be calculated as in the following
equation:
Lloop j ∼= µr µo
h
w l = µr µo
h3w4
w6
, if h3 ≪ w6 (1)
TABLE III
MATERIALS AND PARAMETERS OF THE PROPOSED POWER MODULE
Fig. 6. Internal cross section of the power structure with the preliminary
geometrical parameters.
where µr represents the relative permeability of the FR4
material, µo is the permeability of air, h3 is the distance
between the IMS copper layer and the bottom layer of the
decoupling PCB, w4 is the length, and w6 is the width of
the decoupling PCB. According to (1), the most dominant
parameters influencing the power loop inductance of the
proposed structure are h3, w4, and w6. Table IV outlines
the geometrical parameters, constraints, and design guidelines
necessary for maximizing the electrical and thermal perfor-
mance of the proposed design. Fig. 7(a) depicts the first
optimal solution with a cross-sectional area of 18 × 0.65 mm.
The proposed design exhibits a considerably shorter height
from the IMS substrate to the decoupling capacitors compared
to the latest commercial GaN power modules manufactured
by Infineon (formerly GaN Systems) [29], which typically
range from 2 to 4 mm. The second optimal design solution is
shown in Fig. 7(b). Compared to the first solution in Fig. 7(a),
the length w4 can be reduced to 15 mm by attaching an
additional copper bar to the ac trace to increase current-
carrying capability. The ac copper bar notably enhances the
flux cancellation effect between the ac and ±dc traces, thereby
further minimizing the power loop inductance.
As shown in Fig. 7(c), the third option is to use a DBC
substrate instead of an IMS substrate without modifying the
structure and geometrical parameters. This solution clearly

=== PAGE 7 ===
1194 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
TABLE IV
PARAMETERS AFFECTING POWER MODULE PERFORMANCES
Fig. 7. Internal cross section of the proposed power structure with different
geometry configurations. (a) Optimized IMS structure without ac copper bar.
(b) Optimized IMS structure with ac copper bar. (c) Optimized DBC structure
with ac copper bar.
demonstrated better thermal performance but comes at a higher
cost.
Fig. 8. Three-dimensional CAD model of the proposed IMS power board
with optimized geometrical parameters and configuration.
After optimizing the geometrical configuration and param-
eters as depicted in Fig. 7(b), the final 3-D computer aided
design (CAD) model of the proposed power module is con-
structed, as shown in Fig. 8.
In this design, low-profile copper bars with dimensions
of 40 × 6 × 0.65 mm are utilized for ±dc and 40 ×
5.5 × 0.5 mm for ac. As compared to existing vertical
hybrid structures, the proposed structure can offer the smallest
gap space between decoupling capacitors and power module
substrate.
III. G ATE DRIVER DESIGN CONSIDERATION FOR
PARALLELING GAN DEVICES
Due to the mutual coupling between power and gate driver
modules, fast transients in the power loop can significantly
impact the gate–source voltage in the gate driving loop,
and vice versa. Therefore, their designs must be considered
simultaneously. Achieving robust gate driving signals becomes
particularly challenging when driving parallel GaN devices.
This section identifies the key interactions between the gate
driver and power loop that increase the risk of failure in the
power module. Design guidelines and the proposed gate driver
layout solution are then presented.
A. Influencing Factors Linked to the Stability of the Gate
Driver During Turn-On and Turn-Off Switching Transients
Fig. 9 illustrates the equivalent circuit of low-side parallel
switches operating synchronously during the transient period.
During the turn-on period in the saturation region, Kirch-
hoff’s voltage law is applied to the gate loop, as illustrated
in Fig. 9(a).
Then, the gate–source voltage Vgs j and drain–source current
i Dj of low-side GaN devices can be expressed as in the
following equation:
vgs j = vdrv_ON − ig j
(
Rg j + Rs j
)
−
(
L g j + Lsg j
)di g j
dt
− Mgs j
di Di
dt − Lsg j
d1i D
dt − 1ID Rs j (2)
where g f s j is the transconductance, and Mgs j is the mutual
inductance between quasi-common-source inductance L Qs j

=== PAGE 8 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1195
Fig. 9. Equivalent circuit of parallel devices during switching transient.
(a) di /dt turn-on period. (b) dV /dt turn-off period.
and gate loop inductance






i Dj = g f s j
(
Vgs j − Vth
)
, Vgs j > Vth, j = 1, 2
1i D =
(
L Qs1
di D1
dt − L Qs2
di D2
dt
)/
(Zs1 + Zs2)
Zs1 = Rs1 + sL sg1, Zs2 = Rs2 + sL sg2.
(3)
It can be deduced from (2) and (3) that the key factors causing
oscillations in the gate loop voltage are the mismatch between
quasi-common source inductances ( L Qs j), which leads to a
dynamic circulating current 1i D, and the mutual inductance
(Mgs j) during the high di /dt switching period, as illustrated
in Fig. 9(a). Therefore, to suppress the ringing gate–source
voltage, it is crucial to achieve both symmetrical power loop
inductance and quasi-common source inductances L Qs j across
parallel GaN devices. In addition, minimizing these inductance
values as much as possible will help reduce the negative effects
of di D/dt [22].
During the turn-off transient, the ID current decreases and
charges the output capacitor of the low-side switch. Mean-
while, high dV /dt caused by the ultrahigh-speed switching of
GaN devices results in a feedback current flowing from the
drain to the source terminal of the low-side switch through
the Miller capacitance Cgd , as depicted in Fig. 9(b). In this
transient period, effects of high dV /dt predominate over di /dt .
Thus, the gate–source voltage of GaN switches can be approx-
imated as in the following equation with the assumption of
Fig. 10. Critical factors resulting in failure of paralleled GaN (GS61008P)
chips during dynamic transient period.
Mgs j ≈ 0 and 1ID ≈ 0:









vgs j = vdrvOff + Cgd j
dvDSj
dt
(
Rg j + Rs j
)
+
(
L g j + Lsg j
)
Cgd j
d2vDSj
dt
ig j = Cgd j
dvDSj
dt , j = 1, 2.
(4)
The Miller effect results in a voltage spike of vgs j. If vgs j
exceeds vth, false triggering can occur, potentially leading to
the destruction of the power module due to a short circuit
incident. According to (4), this risk can be mitigated by
minimizing parasitic capacitance Cgd j, parasitic gate loop
inductance (L g j + Lsg j), splitting gate resistance ( Rg j + Rs j),
or applying a negative turn-off voltage of vdrvOff.
According to the analysis above, the crucial factors con-
tributing to the failure of paralleling multiple GaN devices
can be summarized as shown in Fig. 10. Unbalanced
quasi-common source inductance and power-to-gate-loop cou-
pling are identified as the most critical issues resulting in
the failure of power modules. It can be indicated that the
effect of high di /dt is prominent in low-voltage (i.e., 48 V)
and high-current power module applications. Meanwhile,
high-voltage (400 V) and high-current power modules are sig-
nificantly affected by both the Miller effect and quasi-common
source inductances due to the combined influence of dV /dt
and di /dt .
B. Gate Driver Design Consideration
Using a separate gate driver IC for each individual GaN
chip in a parallel configuration is a straightforward solution to
driving multiple GaN devices. This technique simplifies circuit
arrangement and allows for the adoption of gate drivers with
reduced power needs. However, manufacturing tolerances and
variations in IC temperatures might result in unequal propaga-
tion delays among the driver ICs. Consequently, small timing
errors might cause an imbalance in the transient drain–source

=== PAGE 9 ===
1196 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
current distribution. Thus, for driving multiple GaN devices,
it is preferable to employ a single commercial gate driver IC
with a high pulse sink/source current rating and fast transient
periods [35], [36], as depicted in Fig. 4.
1) Negative Voltage Value Selection: Due to the quite
low turn-on threshold voltage, two bipolar isolated power
supplies are used to provide negative turn-off voltages for
both the high-side and low-side drivers, preventing unintended
turn-on caused by the Miller effect. However, a large negative
gate–source voltage Vgs_off leads to a significant voltage drop
VS D during reverse conduction mode, as explained in (5).
This increases reverse conduction losses during the dead-time
period, as expressed in (6)
{
VS D = Vth − Vgs_off + ID × RDSon
−Vgs_off_max ≤ Vgs_off ≤ 0 (5)
Preverse_loss = VS D × ID × tdead × fsw × 2. (6)
Furthermore, a high value of Vgs_off increases the risk of
damaging GaN during transient conditions, as it may surpass
the maximum allowable negative voltage Vgs_off_max of −10 V
specified for the GS61008P.
2) Gate Resistors Selection: Equation (1) is rearranged and
simplified into the following equation by assuming Mgs j ≈ 0
and 1ID ≈ 0:










Vdrv = Vgs j + ig jRgT j + L gT j × di g j
dt
ig j = Cgs j × dV gs j
dt , j = 1, 2, 3, 4
RgT j = Rg j + Rs j
L gT j = L g j + Lsg j.
(7)
The transfer function, representing the relationship between
Vgs j and Vdrv, is obtained in the following equation by taking
the Laplace transform of (7):
G(s) = Vgs j(s)
Vdrv(s) =
1
L gT j Cgs j
s2 + RgT j
L gT j
s + 1
L gT j Cgs j
= ω2
n
s2 + 2ζ ωns + ω2n
. (8)
The turn-on gate resistance is determined according to
the stray gate loop inductance. To suppress ringing with
a proper switching speed, the oscillation must be damped
quickly. Based on the standard second-order ordinary differ-
ential equation (ODE), the critical damping ratio ζ of 0.707 is
selected. Thus, the required total resistance value must be
satisfied by the following equation:
RgT j_ON ≥ 2ζ
√
L gT j
Ciss
. (9)
As previously indicated, to prevent the bouncing of the
gate–source voltage Vgs j due to high dV /dt during the turn-
off transient, the turn-off gate resistance is selected to ensure
that the gate–source voltage does not exceed the gate-threshold
voltage Vth of 1.3 V . The turn-off gate resistance Roff is the
sum of Rg and Rs, calculated using (10) [23]. In 48-V motor
drive applications employing 100-V GaN devices, a maximum
dV /dt is selected as 10 V/ns, and reverse transfer capacitance
(Cgd = Crss ) is 12 pF, according to the datasheet of GS61008P
Roff ≤ Vth
Cgd × dVds
dt
= 1.3 V
12 pF × 10 V
ns
= 10.8  (10)
where Roff is the total resistance of the splitting resistors of Rg
and Rs. Hence, the split turn-on resistor of 4.7  and turn-off
resistor of 4  are utilized to suppress the circulating current
in the parallel gate loop and adjust VDS voltage spike.
C. Design Rules Applied in the Proposed Gate Driver
Design
As aforementioned in Section III-A, the impact factors on
the stability of the gate driver are identified. This section pro-
vides the design rules and solutions to address the challenges
of the gate driver module as follows.
1) It is advisable to use split driving outputs to inde-
pendently manage slew rates during on/off transients.
In addition, reducing resistance in the turn-off loop
helps mitigate the Miller effect, and applying a negative
turn-off voltage of −3 V extends the safe margin for the
threshold voltage.
2) To ensure mutual decoupling between the gate and
power loops, it is crucial to avoid overlapping between
the switching node path and the gate-driving path.
In addition, common-source inductance can be min-
imized by using GaN devices equipped with Kelvin
pins. To further reduce crosstalk caused by high dV /dt
and di /dt through parasitic capacitances and mutual
inductances, it is recommended to separate the gate
driver board from the power board.
3) Maximize the overlap of the PCB layout between the
turn-on path and the return path while minimizing the
distance between two layers to enhance effective flux
cancellation for reducing gate loop inductance.
4) Achieving uniform gate-driving loop inductances is pos-
sible by using a symmetrical PCB layout for the gate
driver board. Furthermore, separate resistors for turn-on
and turn-off ( Rg1–Rg8, Rs1–Rs8) are positioned at both
the gate and source terminals of each GaN transistor,
minimizing the impact of circulating currents within the
gate driver loops.
Fig. 11 illustrates the circuit diagram and PCB layout
of the gate driver designed for the proposed half-bridge
power module. The turn-on gate current path is depicted in
Fig. 11(a) and (b). The total gate resistance is the sum of
the common ON-resistance Ron, splitting resistance of Rg,
and Rs. Likewise, the turn-off gate current path is depicted in
Fig. 11(c) and (d), with a total turn-off resistance comprising
Rg and Rs. As shown in Fig. 11(b) and (d), it can be observed
that the current in both turn-on and turn-off paths flows in
opposite directions in the overlapping top and bottom layers,
resulting in a reduction of gate loop inductance. Furthermore,
to mitigate the inductance mismatch, the lengths of the PCB
layout traces from the gate driver IC to each gate–source
connection of GaN devices should be approximately identical.

=== PAGE 10 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1197
Fig. 11. Circuit diagram and PCB layout of the low-side gate driver board.
(a) Turn-on driving path. (b) Turn-on PCB layout. (c) Turn-off driving path.
(d) Turn-off PCB layout.
Table V includes the main components with their correspond-
ing values.
The isolated power supplies provide +6/−3 V for gate
driver ICs Si8271, which have a split sink and source output
driving terminal. Thus, Ron and Roff can control the turn-on
and turn-off slew rates separately. Since the gate driver PCB
is connected to the IMS substrate through Kelvin gate–source
brass pins and stacked on top of the power board, the gate
driver PCB is physically separated from the power IMS board.
This arrangement minimizes both inductive and capacitive
coupling. In applications requiring higher switching speed,
the gate driver IC 1EDB7275F can be an alternative solu-
tion, with detailed parameters provided in Section A of the
Appendix.
IV. P ARASITIC EXTRACTION AND THERMAL SIMULATION
A. Parasitic Inductance Extraction and Simulation of DPT
In this section, Ansys Q3D is employed to extract the power
and gate loop inductances of the proposed power module
TABLE V
GATE DRIVER COMPONENTS SPECIFICATIONS
Fig. 12. Q3D models for parasitic inductances extraction. (a) Power module
model and simplified power loop models. (b) Gate driver board.
following the framework outlined in Section II-A. As shown
in Fig. 12, the 3-D models, including the copper layout of the
power and gate driver modules, are imported into the Ansys
SIwave/Q3D simulation environment. Once the material and
geometric dimensions are established, the current flow in the
power loop is determined through the configuration of the sink
and source nets. Fig. 12(a) depicts the Q3D model of the power
board and simplified power loop models. The +dc and −dc
inductances of the decoupling PCB are denoted by L D and
L S, respectively, whereas Lac represents the inductance of the
switching node.

=== PAGE 11 ===
1198 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 13. Comparison of power loop inductances without and with the ac
copper bars configuration.
TABLE VI
PARASITIC INDUCTANCES EXTRACTION BY Q3D
The inductance value matrix can be generated from Q3D at
100-MHz solution frequency as follows:


L D MD−S −M D−ac
MS−D L S −MS−ac
−Mac−D −Mac−S Lac

.
The mutual inductances MD−S and MS−D represent the mag-
netic coupling between L D and L S. Similarly, Mac−D, Mac−S,
MD−ac, and MS−ac represent the mutual inductance of Lac with
L D and L S, respectively. The opposing currents in the power
loop lead to flux cancellation, resulting in negative values for
these parameters. Consequently, the power commutation loop
inductance is expressed in the following equation:
Lloop = L D + L S + Lac + 2(−M D−ac − MS−ac + MD−S)
= 1.87 + 1.87 + 5.20 + 2 × (−2.20 − 2.20 + 0.5)
= 1.14 (nH). (11)
A similar inductance extraction method is applied to the gate
driver Q3D model, as shown in Fig. 12(b). Subsequently, the
detailed parasitic inductance values are obtained and listed in
Table VI.
As shown in Fig. 13, the simulation results compare
single-power loop inductance values with and without ac
copper. The inductance of Lac increased from 5.06 to 5.20 nH.
Fortunately, (11) highlights that the most dominant factors
in reducing loop inductance are MD−ac and MS−ac. Thus,
a slight increase in these values from 2.11 to 2.2 nH will
considerably enhance flux cancellation effects, leading to a
reduction in the power loop inductance from 1.38 to 1.14 nH.
This value is close to 1.175 nH obtained in the experimental
power loop extraction in Section B of the Appendix. Most
notably, a thin copper bar is placed close to the GaN chip’s
source terminal, nearly contacting it. Thus, the quasi-common
source inductance value can be considered the internal source
inductance of the GaN chip, which has been simulated to
have an ultralow common source inductance of 0.05 nH
(GS66516B), as reported in [30]. To gain insight into the
switching dynamics of the proposed design, a simulation of the
DPT was performed using LTSPICE software. The simulation
model was established with all parasitic components obtained
from Ansys Q3D and the GS61008P eGaN HEMT SPICE
model provided by GaN Systems. In this high-current GaN-
based inverter design, it is necessary to verify the overshoot
voltage of the power module at a rated voltage and current of
around 48 V/350 A and an operating switching frequency fsw
of 20 kHz. Therefore, the load inductor for the DPT is sized
as described in the following equation:



LDPT ≤ (τ1 + τ2) × Vdc
IL
τ1 + τbreak = 1/fsw
(12)
where τ1, τ2, and τbreak are the first, second pulse, and pulse
break durations, respectively. The pulse length can be chosen
such that 70% of the desired load current is reached. During
the first pulse duration, the dc-link capacitor bank stabilizes the
dc bus voltage with a suitable voltage ripple 1Vdc. By trans-
ferring electrical energy EC from the capacitor bank into the
magnetic energy EL of the load inductor, the energy balance
formula can be established for sizing the dc-link capacitor,
as expressed in the following equation:









1EC ≥ EL
= 1
2CdcV 2
dc − 1
2Cdc(Vdc − 1Vdc)2 ≥ 1
2 LDPTI 2
L
Cdc ≥ LDPTI 2
L
2Vdc1Vdc − 1Vdc2
(13)
where 1EC is the energy drop of the dc-link capacitor during
the first pulse period. Typical values of 1Vdc range from 1%
to 5% of Vdc. According to (12) and (13), the load inductor
and capacitor bank values are selected as 5.5 µH and 400 µF,
respectively. Fig. 14(a) shows the DPT simulation waveforms.
The first and second turn-off switching currents are 275 and
325 A, corresponding to the drain–source voltage spikes VDS
of 64 and 65.8 V , respectively. Thus, the overshoot voltage
across the device has a sufficient margin for safe operation.
In practice, this voltage spike can be controlled by adjusting
the rating transient of dV /dt through the turn-off gate resistor.
Fig. 14(b) shows the drain–source currents during switching
transient periods. As mentioned in Section I, in high-power
traction inverter applications, high dV /dt causes high voltage
stress on the insulation of motor windings and bearing current
issues. Typically, a higher dV /dt results in lower switch-
ing losses but necessitates a heavier and larger dV /dt filter
between the inverter and motor terminals [37], [38]. Therefore,
while Si/insulated gate bipolar transistors (IGBTs)-based
inverters are usually designed to operate within the 5–10 kHz
range, GaN HEMT devices allow an increase in switching
frequency to the 10–40 kHz range. Many studies have com-
monly chosen a 20-kHz switching frequency for high-power

=== PAGE 12 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1199
Fig. 14. LTSPICE DPT simulation result at 48 V/325 A. (a) Drain–source
voltage Vds , load current IL and gate–source voltage Vgs . (b) Drain current
ID waveforms.
TABLE VII
THERMAL PARAMETERS OF IMS P OWER MODULE
GaN traction applications [20], [39], [40], [41], [42]. In addi-
tion, a dV /dt value ranging from 3 to 6 V/ns is typically
recommended in these cases [43].
The dynamic current mismatch in asymmetrical paralleled
GaN packaging [15], [21], [44] is chosen as the baseline
reference for comparison with the symmetrical power loop
configuration in the simulation results, presented in Fig. 15.
In Fig. 15(a) and (b), the current imbalance varies depending
on the different power loop inductances resulting from the
asymmetrical layout. The GaN device exhibits the smallest
power loop inductance, enduring the highest current stress,
while others with larger loops experience lower levels of
current stress. In the symmetrical structure approach, identical
power loop inductances result in uniform dynamic cur-
rents during turn-on and turn-off switching transient periods,
as illustrated in Fig. 15(c) and (d).
B. Thermal Performance Simulation
The thermal performance of the proposed GaN-based power
module is investigated by FEA software. In order to investigate
the thermal characteristics of the power module, the electri-
cal CAD (ECAD) model is imported from Altium Design
(or Ansys SIwave) to Ansys Icepak software. The thermal
properties of the power module components are set according
to the values shown in Table VII. The power loss in each GaN
device is set at 15 W, representing a per-phase loss of 120 W.
The ambient temperature is set to 40 ◦C, and the heat transfer
coefficient of the power module is set at 1000 W/m 2 · K,
Fig. 15. LTSPICE simulation results of dynamic currents in low-side
four paralleled GaN devices during turn-on and turn-off periods. (a) and
(b) Asymmetrical power loop configuration. (c) and (d) Symmetrical power
loop configuration.
which is equivalent to the cooling provided using an air-cooled
heat sink. The steady-state analysis indicates that the ther-
mal performance of the GaN devices settles within the safe
operating range for GaN devices, as shown in Fig. 16. The
proposed GaN-based hybrid packaging structure has shown
thermal performance comparable to that reported in [23].
Fig. 17 illustrates the maximum junction temperature of the
GaN devices under varying power losses and heat transfer
coefficients. The results indicate that both air-cooled and liquid
thermal management systems are adequate for maintaining
acceptable power loss levels and providing a sufficient tem-
perature margin for safe operation.
V. P OWER MODULE FABRICATION PROCESS
As mentioned in Section II-C, despite the DBC-based
solution offering higher thermal conductivity, the IMS-based
design is chosen for laboratory prototyping to validate the
proposed concept. The fabrication procedure of the power
module is illustrated in Fig. 18 and can be summarized as
follows.
Step 1: The fabrication process begins by applying
SAC305 solder paste, composed of 96.5% tin, 3%
silver, and 0.5% copper, to a 3-oz IMS substrate
through a stencil that is 100 µm thick. Afterward,
eight GaN chips are mounted on the board, with
16 brass head pins connecting the gate–source
terminals of each chip. Following this, two ±dc
copper bars (40 × 6.0 × 0.65 mm), an ac copper
bar (40 × 5.5 × 0.5 mm), and power terminals
are placed on the IMS board. The IMS module
is then subjected to the reflow soldering process
within 10 min, which heats it to a recommended
maximum temperature of 220 ◦C [45]. Finally,
a 0.08-mm-thick layer of Kapton tape is applied
to cover the ac copper bar, enhancing electrical
isolation.

=== PAGE 13 ===
1200 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 16. Simulated thermal distribution of proposed power module at 15-W
power loss per individual device, Tamb = 40 ◦C and heat transfer coefficient
of 1000 W/m 2 · K. (a) Top view. (b) Bottom view of power module.
Fig. 17. Junction temperature of GaN devices corresponding to variation of
heat transfer coefficients and power losses.
Step 2: Decoupling capacitor PCBs with a copper thick-
ness of 1 oz and a total thickness of 0.6 mm
are presoldered with three 1 µF/100-V decoupling
capacitors on the top side. Each capacitor PCB is
then placed onto the +dc and −dc copper bars,
ensuring that every pair of high-side and low-
side GaN switches is equally distributed by its
own decoupling capacitor PCB. The PCBs are
subsequently soldered onto the main power mod-
ule using a reflow process with Sn63/Pb37 solder
paste, which melts at 183 ◦C. This step completes
the assembly of the power IMS board.
Step 3: All surface-mount device (SMD) components,
including gate driver ICs, isolated power supplies,
and passive components, are soldered onto the
TABLE VIII
COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT FOR EXPERIMENTAL SETUPS
gate driver PCB, which has a thickness of 1 mm.
Sn63/Pb37 solder paste and a maximum temper-
ature setting of 183 ◦C are used for the reflow
soldering process.
Step 4: Finally, the gate driver board is attached to the IMS
power board via gate–source nail-head pins. Fig.18
shows the fully assembled power module, which
has a low profile and high power density, with
overall dimensions of 79 × 44 × 10 mm. The total
height of the power module can be further reduced
by selecting lower-profile connection terminals.
Using simple −dc/+dc/ac copper bars reduces the copper
layer thickness of the IMS board, allowing for the use of
standard single-layer IMS, which is much less expensive
than multilayer FR4 PCBs or alternatives with thicker copper
layers. In addition, placing most components on one side of the
power substrate, along with the decoupling capacitor PCBs and
the gate driver board, simplifies the reflow soldering process.
Furthermore, the wire-bondless packaging and straightfor-
ward fabrication process make this proposed design both
cost-effective and dependable for paralleling multiple GaN
chips. This laboratory prototype can be implemented without
the need for specialized equipment or advanced techniques.
VI. E XPERIMENTAL VALIDATION
In this section, several experimental setups have been imple-
mented to validate the performance of the proposed power
module, including dynamic and static switching performances,
thermal performance, and expandable power capability. The
experimental setups are depicted in Figs. 19 and 20. The key
components and parameters of the test setups are tabulated in
Table VIII.
A. Dynamic Electrical Testing
DPT evaluations have been performed to assess the dynamic
characteristics of the proposed design. Fig. 19(a) depicts
the circuit diagram of the DPT testing setup for a single
power module. In addition, to validate the scalability of this
power module for higher power inverter applications, the

=== PAGE 14 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1201
Fig. 18. Fabrication process of the proposed GaN-based power module.
Fig. 19. Experimental DPT setups. (a) Circuit diagram for single module. (b) Circuit diagram for dual module. (c) DPT workbench. (d) Zoomed in the
connection for single module. (e) Zoomed in the connection for dual module.
circuit configuration involving dual paralleled GaN modules
is evaluated, as depicted in Fig. 19(b). The test platform setup
is shown in Fig. 19(c), with detailed close-ups of the DPT
setups for single-module and dual-module configurations pro-
vided in Fig. 19(d) and (e), respectively. To prevent magnetic
saturation under high switching currents, an air-core inductor
with a value of 5.5 µH, as calculated in (11), is utilized as
the inductive load. In addition, a 500-µF dc-link capacitor
bank is used to maintain a constant voltage. The high-side
devices function as freewheeling switches by continuously
supplying −3 V to the gate–source pins, while the low-side
GaN transistors operate as the main switches. A digital signal
processing (DSP) board is used to generate the double pulse
signal for the low-side gate drive IC.
The waveforms of the drain–source voltage VDS at the
switching node, the gate–source voltage VGS , and the inductor
current IL are captured using a differential probe, a passive
probe, and a current clamp probe, respectively. These wave-
forms are displayed on the TDS5054B oscilloscope, as shown
in Fig. 21. Table VIII contains detailed specifications of the
measurement equipment. As shown in Fig. 21(a) and (b),
the proposed power module has fulfilled the test successfully
under hard switching conditions of 48 V/328 A with a single
module and 48 V/400 A with two paralleled modules. Zoom-
ing into the detailed turn-on and turn-off transient waveforms
of the single module DPT test in Fig. 21(c) and (e), the voltage
spike reaches 60.8 V with a dV /dt of 3.2 V/ns.
In a dual module test, the spike voltage VDS is only 49.6 V ,
maintaining the same dV /dt of 3.2 V/ns, as illustrated in
Fig. 21(e) and (f). This test also indicates that the single
module has a 3.3% overshoot voltage under 200-A switching
current. In addition, the symmetrical structure results in a

=== PAGE 15 ===
1202 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 20. Experimental setups for continuous power tests. (a) Circuit diagram of buck converter. (b) Hardware setup of buck converter. (c) Circuit diagram
of open-loop three phase inverter. (d) Hardware setup of three phase inverter system.
minimal VGS mismatch between the two modules. The VGS
waveforms are stable, with low oscillation and bouncing
voltages of less than 1.2 V at both 328- and 200-A switching
currents. The dynamic testing results validate the robustness of
switching waveforms under high-current switching conditions.
The detailed comparison of switching performance between
the proposed GaN power module and the existing 48-V
Si-based power modules is listed in Table X of Section C
in the Appendix.
B. Static Continuous Power Testing
The aim of this test is to verify the operational perfor-
mance of the proposed GaN power module under continuous
power conditions. The buck-converter and three-phase inverter
experimental circuit diagrams are shown in Fig. 20(a) and (c),
with the parameters listed in Table VIII. Fig. 20(b) and (d)
shows the prototype in the testing setups.
The power module is attached to an aluminum heat sink
with dimensions of 100 × 150 × 25 mm, where heat is dissi-
pated via forced air cooling. In the 48–24 V/3-kW open-loop
buck converter test, the duty cycle is set at 50% with a 200-ns
dead-time duration. The inductor current IL, drain–source
voltage VDS , and gate–source voltage VGS waveforms of
the buck converter are shown in Fig. 22 under the testing
conditions of the 20-kHz switching frequency and 3-kW input
power. The tested waveforms show that robust VDS and VGS
can be achieved at an average hard switching current of 120 A.
According to the DPT results in Fig. 21(b), which show a
low-voltage spike of 49.6 V at a 200-A switching current,
it is suggested that the proposed power module can operate
safely at up to 5 kW as a buck converter with a proper cooling
system.
Because of the highly compact package integration, the
temperature distribution of each GaN chip is impossible to
observe with the thermal camera. The thermal performance
is indirectly evaluated by observing the thermal aluminum
substrate and heat sink, as shown in Fig. 23.
Fig. 24 depicts the efficiency measurement of the buck
converter module under various output load currents. The max-
imum efficiency can reach 96.1% at a load current of 100 A.
This efficiency is expected to be further improved through
proper design of the coil inductor, capacitors, and selection
of a suitable gate driver IC with optimal switching speed
and dead-time value. However, achieving optimal efficiency
for this testing is beyond the scope of this article. After
confirming the operation of the proposed half-bridge module
with the DPT and buck-converter tests, a three-phase inverter
test setup is built according to the circuit schematic shown
in Fig. 20(c). This test further investigates the potential of
the power module for low-voltage and high-current applica-
tions with a liquid cooling method. As shown in Fig. 20(d),
three power modules are mounted on the cold plate and
supplied by a 500 A to 80-V dc power supply. The testing
power is limited by the rated three-phase inductor current
of 120 A.
Fig. 25 shows the phase currents and drain–source wave-
forms of the open loop three-phase inverter system. The phase
current reaches the peak value of 160 A with an overshoot
drain–source voltage of 50 V .
For heat dissipation, the chiller cooling system is connected
to the inlet and outlet of the cold plate, and the flow rate
is set at 10 L/min. At 5-kW power and 10 min operating
duration, the thermal image of three power modules is cap-
tured, as shown in Fig. 26. The maximum temperature of
the IMS aluminum substrate is only around 34 ◦C with the
liquid cooling solution. Compared to the forced air cooling
method with a heat sink, the liquid cold plate dissipates heat
more effectively, as expected. Based on these test results, both
the switching and thermal performances demonstrate that the
proposed power module is well-suited for high-power traction
inverter applications.

=== PAGE 16 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1203
Fig. 21. Experimental DPT waveforms. (a) DPT waveforms of the single half-bridge power module at 48 V/328 A. (b) DPT waveforms of the dual half-bridge
power module at 48 V/400 A. (c) Zoomed the turn-on transient in single module setup. (d) Zoomed in turn-on transient in the dual module setup. (e) Zoomed
in turn-off transient in single module setup. (f) Zoomed in turn-off transient in dual module setup.
VII. D ISCUSSION AND FUTURE PERSPECTIVES
The adoption of GaN power modules in future vehicle elec-
trification brings high demands and challenging requirements
in terms of power density, power rating, electrical, thermal,
and mechanical stress, efficiency, and reliability. However,
existing packaging structures for Si or SiC dies may not be
directly applicable to GaN modules. In addition, there is a
lack of research on paralleling more than two GaN devices to
address all the design challenges, particularly for high-power
traction inverters. Compared to previously available meth-
ods for paralleling four GaN chips, the proposed solution
meets multiple design objectives, including robust switching
characteristics, high thermal conductivity, low mechanical
stress, enhanced flexibility and scalability, system compact-
ness, and cost-effectiveness, as illustrated in the radar chart
in Fig. 27.

=== PAGE 17 ===
1204 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 22. Experimental waveforms of buck converter at 20 kHz to 3 kW
testing condition.
Fig. 23. Thermal image of the power module as tested in buck converter at
20 kHz to 3 kW condition.
Fig. 24. Efficiency of buck converter tested at various output load currents.
In Section D of the Appendix, a mechanical simulation
model of the proposed power module, including detailed
material properties, is presented along with corresponding
simulation results. Section E of the Appendix provides an
overview of the scalability and flexibility of the inverter pro-
totype utilizing the proposed GaN module. Although various
simulations and experiments have been conducted in this study,
certain limitations remain due to the scope of the research and
the constraints of the measurement equipment available in the
current laboratory conditions. In the future, it might be useful
to implement more elaborate simulations, experiments, and
hardware prototypes to validate the potential of the proposed
design for high-power GaN-based inverter systems.
Fig. 25. Experimental waveforms of three-phase inverter setup at 20 kHz to
5 kW condition.
Fig. 26. Thermal image of the power module as evaluated in three-phase
system at 20 kHz to 5 kW condition.
Fig. 27. Radar chart comparing the performance of the proposed GaN power
module with existing modules housing four or more parallel GaN chips.
1) To improve thermal performance and mechanical
strength in future study, the IMS aluminum baseplate
can be replaced with a DBC substrate. In addition,
integrating the heat sink into a pin-fin base plate can
be an alternative technique to enhance heat transfer

=== PAGE 18 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1205
capability. This proposed packaging concept is also
suitable for 650-V bottom-cooled GaN chips such as
GS66516B. To ensure the electrical clearance in the
high-voltage power module without increasing power
loop inductance, a thin FR4 fiberglass sheet of 0.15 mm
can be inserted between the ac switching node and
decoupling capacitor PCBs.
2) Thermomechanical simulation, power cycling, and ther-
mal cycling tests might be performed to assess the
reliability of the proposed power module under different
temperature profiles.
3) Eventually, the entire inverter system with closed-loop
control should be evaluated on the motor test bench
using the standard driving cycles, which is planned for
the near future.
VIII. C ONCLUSION
This article presents the design and implementation of a
compact GaN-based 360 A/100-V half-bridge module with
dimensions of 44 × 79 × 10 mm. By combining the advan-
tages of existing power packaging solutions and addressing
their limitations, the proposed structure achieves a uniform
power and gate loop with low inductance, high thermal con-
ductivity, robust switching waveforms, no mechanical stress
on the devices, reduced complexity, cost-effectiveness, and
expandable power capability. The DPT successfully validated
the dynamic switching performance of the proposed power
module, achieving 328 A for a single module with a dV /dt
of 3.2 V/ns and a peak voltage of 60.8 V . In parallel configu-
ration, a dual-module setup reached 400 A while maintaining
the same dV /dt value and a maximum voltage of 49.6 V .
In addition, it is configured as a 48-/24-V 3-kW buck converter
and a 48-V 5-kW inverter to assess its thermal performance
during steady-state operation. With a terminal arrangement
similar to standard commercial products, this design is also
compatible with both IMS and DBC packaging techniques,
making it an attractive solution for a wide range of high-power
automotive inverter systems.
APPENDIX
A. Gate Driver ICs Selection
In scenarios with high switching speed and frequency
demands, the Si8271 gate driver IC can be replaced by the
1EDB7275F gate driver IC from Infineon, which offers notably
higher source/sink currents of 5/9 A, as detailed in Table IX.
In the proposed hybrid power module configuration, a separate
gate driver board from the main power substrate provides
flexibility for different applications. Due to the same footprint
package and output pin configuration, the proposed gate driver
board layout using the Si8271 can be slightly modified to
accommodate the 1EDB7275F.
B. Experimental Extraction of Power Loop Stray Inductance
As depicted in Fig. 28, this testing setup aims to estimate the
stray inductance of the power loop through the high-frequency
oscillation of the VDS waveforms. The power module is
TABLE IX
GATE DRIVER ICS SOLUTION FOR PROPOSED GATE DRIVER BOARD
Fig. 28. Experimental setup for extracting power loop inductance. (a) Circuit
diagram including parasitic components. (b) Oscillating waveforms resulting
from resonant parasitic components.
soldered with one pair of high-side and low-side GaN devices.
In addition, the attachment of the VDS probe in the measure-
ment loop is minimized to mitigate stray inductance effects.
The DPT is tested at 50 V at 56 A using a 500-MHz band-
width passive probe (Keysight-N2873A). During the turn-off
transient period, the power loop inductance ( Lloop) and the
equivalent series inductance (ESL) of decoupling capacitors
resonate with the output capacitance ( Coss) of the bottom-side
GaN device, the PCB parasitic capacitance ( Cpcb), and the
output capacitance of the passive probe ( Cprobe). Fig. 28(b)
shows that the oscillation period ( Tosc) is about 3.76 ns,
equivalent to a ringing frequency of 266 MHz. There are
three ceramic decoupling capacitors (1 µF-100 V) with the
part number GCM21BC72A105KE35.
The self-resonant frequency (SRF) of the capacitor can
be determined by plotting the impedance ( S11 parameter)
using the S2P file format provided by the Murata man-
ufacturer, as shown in Fig. 29. The SRF value of the

=== PAGE 19 ===
1206 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
TABLE X
COMPARISON OF SWITCHING SPEEDS BETWEEN PROPOSED GaN P OWER MODULE AND Si P OWER MODULES IN 48 V M OTOR DRIVE APPLICATIONS
GCM21BC72A105KE35 capacitor is 6.65 MHz, resulting in
an ESL value of 0.57 nH (ESL = 1/(4π 2SRF2C)). Subse-
quently, the power loop inductance value is approximated in
the following equation:
Lloop ≈ T 2
osc
4π 2(
Coss + Cpcb + Cprobe
)− ESLdecoup_cap
Ndecoup_cap
≈ 3.76 ns 2
4π 2(250 pF + 2 pF + 10 pF) − 0.57 nH
3
≈ 1.175 nH (14)
where Coss is the output capacitance of 250 pF obtained
from the datasheet at 50 V , Cpcb is estimated as
2 pF, and the probe capacitance (Keysight-N2873A) ranges
from 10 to 25 pF. Due to the use of three parallel decoupling
capacitors ( Ndecoup_cap = 3), the total ESL value of the decou-
pling capacitors is reduced from 0.57 to 0.19 nH. Therefore,
the power loop inductance value is 1.175 nH, which is close
to the simulation value of 1.14 nH.
C. Comparison of Switching Characteristics in 48-V Motor
Drive Applications
Table X compares the experimental results of switching
speeds, overshoot voltage, and switching frequency between
the proposed GaN power module and other Si power modules
in 48-V motor drive applications. Existing traction power
modules have dV /dt values ranging from 0.15 to 0.48 V/ns,
which is considerably less than the 3 V/ns of GaN power
modules. In addition, the DPT and inverter test results indicate
that the proposed GaN power module has the lowest overshoot
voltage.
D. Mechanical Stress Analysis of Proposed GaN Power
Module
As previously mentioned, compared to a multilayer FR4-
PCB solution, the proposed GaN power module offers a rigid
structure due to the stronger mechanical support provided by
its metal baseplate and bottom-side cold plate attachment. This
part of the article focuses on verifying the mechanical stress on
the power module using ANSYS Static Structural simulation.
The mechanical simulation includes the application of standard
earth gravity in the −Z direction and frictionless support at
the bottom to represent the connection between the power
module and the cold plate. A preload force of 1697.6 N has
Fig. 29. Impedance versus frequency plot of the GCM21BC72A105KE35
capacitor.
Fig. 30. Mechanical stress simulation results. (a) Total deformation.
(b) Equivalent stress (the observed deformation is amplified by a factor
of 320).
been applied for M3 hex socket cap screws in A2 304 quality,
which are located at the four corners of the power module.
The material parameters used in the mechanical simulation
are provided in Table XI.
As illustrated in Fig. 30, the mechanical stress distribution
across the GaN chips is uniform, with the maximum deforma-
tion occurring at the four corners of the baseplate, measuring
5.25 × 10−3 mm. The equivalent stress is concentrated at these

=== PAGE 20 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1207
TABLE XI
MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS
Fig. 31. GaN-based inverter prototypes. (a) 3-D CAD model from different
perspectives. (b) 12-kW six-phase inverter configuration. (c) 25-kW six-phase
inverter configuration.
corners due to the force applied by the tightening screws, with
a peak value of 182 MPa. This stress level remains below the
yield stress of Al6061, which is 276 MPa. The GaN chips,
meanwhile, experience negligible mechanical stress, with a
V on Mises stress value of 3 × 10−1 MPa. Future study might
investigate reliability concerns due to thermomechanical stress
caused by differences in the coefficients of thermal expansion
(CTE) between materials, which can be validated through the
thermal cycle testing setup.
E. Prototype Development of a High-Power GaN-Based
Traction Inverter Using the Proposed Power Module
As illustrated in Fig. 31(a), either six power modules with
one dc-link capacitor bank or 12 power modules with two
dc-link capacitor banks can be arranged on one side or
both sides of the liquid cold plate. This flexible arrangement
supports various inverter topologies and allows scalability to
different power levels. Fig. 31(b) shows a 12-kW six-phase
inverter.
As depicted in Fig. 31(c), using two parallel power modules
can increase the power to 25 kW. Alternatively, the configura-
tion can be adapted to a 12-kW three-phase inverter with six
power modules. Thus, depending on the number of phases of
the motor and the required power, the inverter structure can
be easily modified accordingly.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This research has received funding from the European
Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme
under grant agreement No 101006943, under the title
of URBANIZED (https://urbanized.eu/). The authors also
acknowledge Flanders Make for the support to their research
group.
REFERENCES
[1] D.-D. Tran, M.-T. Tran, K. Deepak, M. Ferreri, M. E. Baghdadi, and
O. Hegazy, “48 V 25kW GaN inverter design consideration for urban-
sized electric utility vehicles,” in Proc. Int. Symp. Power Electron.,
Electr. Drives, Autom. Motion (SPEEDAM), Jun. 2022, pp. 826–831,
doi: 10.1109/SPEEDAM53979.2022.9842030.
[2] R. Rong and R. Wang, “A 500Arms 48 V power stage of BSG inverter
with TO-leadless MOSFET for mild HEV ,” in Proc. PCIM Asia; Int.
Exhib. Conf. Power Electron., Intell. Motion, Renew. Energy Energy
Manage., Jun. 2017, pp. 1–7.
[3] Y . Si, Y . Liu, C. Liu, Z. Zhang, M. Wang, and Q. Lei, “A high current
high power density motor drive for a 48-volt belt-driven starter generator
(BSG) system,” IEEE Open J. Ind. Appl., vol. 2, pp. 235–250, 2021, doi:
10.1109/OJIA.2021.3102972.
[4] M. T. Tran and W. Choi, “Design and implementation of a con-
stant current and constant voltage wireless charger operating at
6.78 MHz,” IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 184254–184265, 2019, doi:
10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2959981.
[5] A. I. Emon, Mustafeez-ul-Hassan, A. B. Mirza, J. Kaplun, S. S. Vala,
and F. Luo, “A review of high-speed GaN power modules: State
of the art, challenges, and solutions,” IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Topics
Power Electron., vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 2707–2729, Jun. 2023, doi:
10.1109/JESTPE.2022.3232265.
[6] E. A. Jones, F. F. Wang, and D. Costinett, “Review of commercial
GaN power devices and GaN-based converter design challenges,” IEEE
J. Emerg. Sel. Topics Power Electron., vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 707–719,
Sep. 2016, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2016.2582685.
[7] B. Li, X. Yang, K. Wang, H. Zhu, L. Wang, and W. Chen, “A compact
double-sided cooling 650V/30A GaN power module with low parasitic
parameters,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 426–439,
Jan. 2022, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2021.3092367.
[8] O. Bay, M. Tran, M. El Baghdadi, S. Chakraborty, and O. Hegazy,
“A comprehensive review of GaN-based bi-directional on-board charger
topologies and modulation methods,” Energies, vol. 16, no. 8, p. 3433,
Apr. 2023, doi: 10.3390/en16083433.
[9] L. Kou, J. Lu, and P. Di Maso, “GaN HEMT outperforms silicon
in low frequency applications,” in Proc. IEEE 7th Workshop Wide
Bandgap Power Devices Appl. (WiPDA) , Oct. 2019, pp. 255–260, doi:
10.1109/WiPDA46397.2019.8998762.
[10] H. Li, C. Yao, L. Fu, X. Zhang, and J. Wang, “Evaluations
and applications of GaN HEMTs for power electronics,” in Proc.
IEEE 8th Int. Power Electron. Motion Control Conf. (IPEMC-
ECCE Asia), May 2016, pp. 563–569, doi: 10.1109/IPEMC.2016.
7512348.
[11] E. A. Bottaro and S. A. Rizzo, “An overview of strengths and weaknesses
in using MOSFET experience for modeling GaN HEMT,” Energies,
vol. 16, no. 18, p. 6574, Sep. 2023, doi: 10.3390/en16186574.
[12] J. L. Lu and D. Chen, “Paralleling GaN E-HEMTs in 10 kW–100 kW
systems,” in Proc. IEEE Appl. Power Electron. Conf. Expo. (APEC),
Mar. 2017, pp. 3049–3056, doi: 10.1109/APEC.2017.7931131.
[13] M. Wattenberg, O. Lorenz, and J. Sanchez, “Efficiently paralleling GaN-
transistors for high current and high frequency applications using a
butterfly layout,” in Proc. 24th Eur. Conf. Power Electron. Appl. (EPE
ECCE Europe), Sep. 2022, pp. 1–10.
[14] M. Wattenberg, O. G. Lorenz, and J. Sanchez, “A multi-kilowatt low-
profile GaN inverter for light electric vehicles and high-power tools,”
in Proc. IEEE Appl. Power Electron. Conf. Expo. (APEC), Mar. 2023,
pp. 1443–1450, doi: 10.1109/APEC43580.2023.10131197.
[15] B. Passmore et al., “A 650 V/150 a enhancement mode GaN-based half-
bridge power module for high frequency power conversion systems,”
in Proc. IEEE Energy Convers. Congr. Exposit. (ECCE), Sep. 2015,
pp. 4520–4524, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2015.7310298.
[16] J. Lu, R. Hou, and D. Chen, “Loss distribution among paralleled
GaN HEMTs,” in Proc. IEEE Energy Convers. Congr. Expo. (ECCE),
Sep. 2018, pp. 1914–1919, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2018.8557988.

=== PAGE 21 ===
1208 IEEE JOURNAL OF EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS IN POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2025
[17] J. L. Lu, D. Chen, and L. Yushyna, “A high power-density and high
efficiency insulated metal substrate based GaN HEMT power module,”
in Proc. IEEE Energy Convers. Congr. Expo. (ECCE), Oct. 2017,
pp. 3654–3658, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2017.8096647.
[18] Y . Zhang, Z. Wu, C. Chen, Y . Kang, and H. Peng, “A high power
density chip-on-chip gan-based module with ultra-low parasitic induc-
tance,” in Proc. IEEE Workshop Wide Bandgap Power Devices Appl.
Asia (WiPDA Asia), Aug. 2021, pp. 444–448, doi: 10.1109/WiPDAA-
sia51810.2021.9656048.
[19] Y . Yan, L. Zhu, J. Walden, Z. Liang, H. Bai, and M. H. Kao,
“Packaging a top-cooled 650 V/150 a GaN power modules with
insulated thermal pads and gate-drive circuit,” in Proc. IEEE Appl.
Power Electron. Conf. Expo. (APEC) , Jun. 2021, pp. 2345–2350, doi:
10.1109/APEC42165.2021.9487427.
[20] P. Han, P. Liu, Q. Huang, Z. Chen, and A. Q. Huang, “A 650 V , 2.1
mohm GaN half-bridge power module for 400 V EV traction inverter
application,” in Proc. IEEE Energy Convers. Congr. Exposit. (ECCE),
Oct. 2022, pp. 1–6, doi: 10.1109/ECCE50734.2022.9947431.
[21] J. A. Brothers and T. Beechner, “GaN module design recommenda-
tions based on the analysis of a commercial 3-Phase GaN module,”
in Proc. IEEE Energy Convers. Congr. Expo. (ECCE), Sep. 2019,
pp. 4109–4116, doi: 10.1109/ECCE.2019.8913223.
[22] L. Lu, G. Liu, and K. Bai, “Critical transient processes of enhancement-
mode GaN HEMTs in high-efficiency and high-reliability applications,”
CES Trans. Electr. Mach. Syst., vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 283–291, Sep. 2017,
doi: 10.23919/TEMS.2017.8086107.
[23] A. I. Emon et al., “Design and optimization of gate driver inte-
grated multichip 3-D GaN power module,” IEEE Trans. Trans-
port. Electrific., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 4391–4407, Dec. 2022, doi:
10.1109/TTE.2022.3173585.
[24] D. Reusch and J. Strydom, “Understanding the effect of PCB lay-
out on circuit performance in a high-frequency gallium-nitride-based
point of load converter,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 29, no. 4,
pp. 2008–2015, Apr. 2014, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2013.2266103.
[25] B. Sun, K. L. Jørgensen, Z. Zhang, and M. A. E. Andersen, “Research
of power loop layout and parasitic inductance in GaN transistor imple-
mentation,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 57, no. 2, pp. 1677–1687,
Mar. 2021, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2020.3048641.
[26] B. Zhao, P. Sun, Q. Yu, Y . Cai, and Z. Zhao, “Layout-dominated
dynamic imbalanced current analysis and its suppression strategy of
parallel SiC MOSFETs,” IEEE Trans. Device Mater. Rel., vol. 21, no. 3,
pp. 394–404, Sep. 2021, doi: 10.1109/TDMR.2021.3101719.
[27] J. P. Kozak et al., “Stability, reliability, and robustness of
GaN power devices: A review,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron.,
vol. 38, no. 7, pp. 8442–8471, Jul. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2023.
3266365.
[28] H. Lee, V . Smet, and R. Tummala, “A review of SiC power module
packaging technologies: Challenges, advances, and emerging issues,”
IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Topics Power Electron., vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 239–255,
Mar. 2020, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2019.2951801.
[29] L. Kou and J. Lu, “Applying GaN HEMTs in conventional housing-
type power modules,” in Proc. IEEE Energy Convers. Congr. Expo.
(ECCE), Oct. 2020, pp. 4006–4011, doi: 10.1109/ECCE44975.2020.
9236281.
[30] Design Considerations of Paralleled GaN HEMT-Based Half Bridge
Power Stage, GaN Syst., Hsinchu, Taiwan, 2018.
[31] M. T. Tran, K. Deepak, O. Bay, D.-D. Tran, M. E. Baghdadi, and
O. Hegazy, “A 48 V/360A power module-based paralleled-GaN devices
for low-voltage and high-current traction inverter applications,” in Proc.
IEEE Vehicle Power Propuls. Conf. (VPPC), Oct. 2023, pp. 1–6, doi:
10.1109/vppc60535.2023.10403368.
[32] A. B. Jørgensen, S. Munk-Nielsen, and C. Uhrenfeldt, “Overview
of digital design and finite-element analysis in modern power
electronic packaging,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 35,
no. 10, pp. 10892–10905, Oct. 2020, doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2020.
2978584.
[33] E. Gurpinar, F. Iannuzzo, Y . Yang, A. Castellazzi, and F. Blaabjerg,
“Design of low-inductance switching power cell for GaN HEMT based
inverter,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 1592–1601,
Mar. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TIA.2017.2777417.
[34] M. T. Thompson, “Inductance calculation techniques—Part I: Clas-
sical methods,” Power Control Intell. Motion, vol. 25, no. 12,
pp. 40–45, 1999. Accessed: Jan. 29, 2024. [Online]. Available:
http://members.aol.com/marctt/index.htm
[35] R. Risch and J. Biela, “Low voltage GaN-based gate driver to increase
switching speed of paralleled 650 V E-mode GaN HEMTs,” in
Proc. 22nd Eur. Conf. Power Electron. Appl. (EPE ECCE Europe),
Sep. 2020, pp. P.1–P.11, doi: 10.23919/EPE20ECCEEurope43536.2020.
9215773.
[36] Y . Gui, R. Burgos, D. Boroyevich, and K. D. T. Ngo, “Gate
driver for phase leg of parallel enhancement-mode gallium-nitride
(GaN) transistors,” M.S. thesis, Virginia Polytech. Inst., State Univ.,
2018. [Online]. Available: https://vtechworks.lib.vt.edu/server/api/core/
bitstreams/830bed5d-497b-4ade-8612-ac787e3ed7c2/content
[37] A. K. Morya et al., “Wide bandgap devices in AC electric
drives: Opportunities and challenges,” IEEE Trans. Transp. Elec-
trific., vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 3–20, Mar. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TTE.2019.
2892807.
[38] Y . Xu et al., “Impact of high switching speed and high
switching frequency of wide-bandgap motor drives on electric
machines,” IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 82866–82880, 2021, doi:
10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3086680.
[39] K. Ohta et al., “Variable switching frequency control for efficiency
improvement of motor drive system by using GaN three phase inverter,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Ind. Technol. (ICIT), Feb. 2020, pp. 119–123,
doi: 10.1109/ICIT45562.2020.9067266.
[40] (2023). WBG Switches in Motor Drive Systems Investigating the
Impact of High-Frequency Switching Wide Bandgap-based Inverters
on Motor Drive Losses. Accessed: Jan. 25, 2024. [Online]. Available:
http://www.infineon.com
[41] W. A. Khan, A. Ebrahimian, S. I. Hosseini S., and N. Weise, “Design
of high current, high power density GaN based motor drive for
all electric aircraft application,” in Proc. IEEE 9th Workshop Wide
Bandgap Power Devices Appl. (WiPDA) , Nov. 2022, pp. 247–253, doi:
10.1109/WiPDA56483.2022.9955273.
[42] M. Hepp, L. Hertenstein, A. Nisch, W. Wondrak, F. Bertele, and
M. Heller, “Potential of GaN semiconductors in electric vehicle invert-
ers,” in Proc. PCIM Eur.; Int. Exhib. Conf. Power Electron., Intell.
Motion, Renew. Energy Energy Manage., May 2022, pp. 1–8, doi:
10.30420/565822134.
[43] M. Haider, P. S. Niklaus, M. Madlener, G. Rohner, and J. W. Kolar,
“Comparative evaluation of gate driver and LC-filter based dv/dt-
limitation for SiC-based motor-integrated variable speed drive inverters,”
IEEE Open J. Power Electron., vol. 4, pp. 450–462, 2023, doi:
10.1109/OJPEL.2023.3283052.
[44] T. Sawada, H. Tadano, K. Shiozaki, and T. Isobe, “Continuous
operation of high-power half-bridge with 12 paralleled GaN
power devices,” in Proc. Int. Power Electron. Conf., May 2022,
pp. 157–160, doi: 10.23919/IPEC-Himeji2022-ECCE53331.2022.
9806956.
[45] GaN Systems-1 GN011 Application Note Soldering Recom-
mendations for GaNPX® Packaged Devices, 2019. [Online].
Available: https://gansystems.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/
GN011-Soldering-Recommendations-for-GaNPX%C2%AE-Packaged-
Devices-Rev-190806.pdf
[46] T. Skuber, A. Sešek, and J. Trontelj, “Modeling of power module for
48 V high power inverter,” J. Microelectron., Electron. Compon. Mater.,
vol. 51, no. 4, pp. 243–251, 2021, doi: 10.33180/InfMIDEM2021.
404.
[47] S. Musumeci, F. Scrimizzi, F. Fusillo, R. Bojoi, G. Longo, and
C. Mistretta, “Low voltage high current trench-gate MOSFET inverter
for belt starter generator applications,” in Proc. AEIT Int. Conf. Electr.
Electron. Technol. Automot. (AEIT AUTOMOTIVE), Jul. 2019, pp. 1–6,
doi: 10.23919/EETA.2019.8804598.
[48] O. Tahmaz, F. Bay, and A. Yazar, “Double pulse test of the paralleled
power MOSFETs in high current 48 V inverter design,” in Proc. IEEE
20th Int. Power Electron. Motion Control Conf. (PEMC), Sep. 2022,
pp. 62–69, doi: 10.1109/PEMC51159.2022.9962911.
[49] J. Seong et al., “Multiphysics simulation analysis and design of inte-
grated inverter power module for electric compressor used in 48-V
mild hybrid vehicles,” IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Topics Power Electron.,
vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 1668–1676, Sep. 2019, doi: 10.1109/JESTPE.2019.
2905902.
[50] J. Seong et al., “DBC-packaged inverter power module for inte-
grated motor-inverter design used in 48 V mild hybrid starter-
generator (MHSG) system,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68,
no. 12, pp. 11704–11713, Dec. 2019, doi: 10.1109/TVT.2019.
2948644.

=== PAGE 22 ===
TRAN et al.: HIGH-PERFORMANCE GaN POWER MODULE WITH PARALLEL PACKAGING 1209
Manh Tuan Tran(Student Member, IEEE) received
the B.Sc. degree in electrical engineering from
Thai Nguyen University of Technology (TNUT),
Thai Nguyen, Vietnam, in 2011, and the M.Sc.
degree in electrical engineering from Soongsil Uni-
versity (SSU), Seoul, South Korea, in 2019. He is
currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the Depart-
ment of Electrical Machines and Energy Technology
(ETEC), EPOWERS—Efficient Power Electronics,
Powertrain, and Energy Solutions—Research Group,
MOBI Research Center, Vrije Universiteit Brussel
(VUB), Brussels, Belgium.
His research interests include gallium nitride (GaN) power module
packaging methods, GaN-based traction inverter design, and GaN-based
onboard battery chargers and wireless power charging systems for electric
vehicles (EVs).
Dai Duong Tran received the B.Sc. degree in
electrical engineering from Hanoi University of Sci-
ence and Technology, Hanoi, Vietnam, in 2011, the
M.Sc. degree in electrical engineering from Soongsil
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea, in 2016, and
the Ph.D. degree from Vrije Universiteit Brussel
(VUB), Brussels, Belgium, in January 2021.
He was a Post-Doctoral Researcher and the
Technical Project Manager at MOBI, EPOWERS—
Efficient Power Electronics, Powertrain, and Energy
Solutions—Research Group, VUB. He involved in
different European and national projects, focusing on multidisciplinary
co-design optimization framework, wideband gap-based power electronics
converters (multiport converter, GaN/SiC inverter, offboard/onboard charger),
optimization of powertrain system for plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, and
integrated energy management strategies.
Kritika Deepak received the bachelor’s degree in
2014, and the master’s degree in advanced electrical
machines, power electronics and drives from the
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, U.K., in 2015.
She is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree in
engineering sciences with the EPOWERS Group,
MOBI Research Center, Vrije Universiteit Brussel,
Brussels, Belgium.
She worked as a Research Associate at Technische
Hochschule Nürnberg Georg Simon Ohm, Nurem-
berg, Germany, from 2018 to 2020. Her research
focuses on the design and multiphysics (electromagnetic, thermal, and struc-
tural) simulation of magnet-free motors for in-wheel motors.
Gamze Egin Martin received the bachelor’s and
master’s degrees in mechanical engineering from
Uludag University, Bursa, Turkey, in 2015 and
2019, respectively. She is currently pursuing the
Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering and energy
technology with MOBI, Efficient Power Electron-
ics, Powertrain, and Energy Solutions (EPOWERS)
Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB),
Brussels, Belgium.
In her previous role as a Research and Develop-
ment Project Responsible at Renault Group, Bursa,
Turkey, she contributed to both project management and product development.
With over five years of experience in the automotive and optoelectronic
industries, she has developed significant expertise, particularly in research and
development. Her current research interests focus on thermal management for
power electronics systems in automotive applications, with an emphasis on
energy efficiency and sustainable transportation.
Olcay Bay (Student Member, IEEE) received the
B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees in electrical machinery
and power electronics from Middle East Techni-
cal University, Ankara, Turkey, in 2013 and 2017,
respectively. He is currently pursuing the Ph.D.
degree in engineering science with the EPOWERS
Research Group, MOBI Research Center, Vrije Uni-
versiteit Brussel (VUB), Brussels, Belgium.
From 2013 to 2021, he worked as a Researcher
at the TÜB ˙ITAK Marmara Research Center, Gebze,
Turkey, specializing in the design and implementa-
tion of power electronic converters for renewable energy systems, flexible
ac transmission systems (FACTS), and high voltage direct current (HVdc)
systems. His research interests include power electronics and its applications,
particularly in multiphysics modeling, control systems, virtual prototyping,
and hardware design for power electronic systems.
Mohamed El Baghdadi (Member, IEEE) received
the M.Sc. degree in electromechanical engineering
from Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Brussels,
Belgium, in 2009, and the Ph.D. degree in engineer-
ing sciences from VUB, in 2018.
In 2009, his research focused on control engi-
neering in the steel manufacturing’s hot-strip rolling
process. Since 2011, his research has been focused
on electric and hybrid vehicles, drivetrain modeling
and testing, and wireless charging systems, while
contributing to numerous national and European
research projects in these fields and working as an Academic Teaching
Assistant. Since 2018, he has been worked as a Post-Doctoral Researcher of
power electronics, electric machines, and (hybrid) electric vehicle powertrains
at the MOBI Research Center, VUB, where he is currently the Leader of
the Vehicle Powertrain Team and has been a Professor with the Electrical
Engineering and Energy Technology Department since 2019. He is also
involved in teaching electrical engineering courses in academia and indus-
try. He is the Co-Director of the EPOWERS—Efficient Power Electronics,
Powertrain and Energy Solutions—Research Group, focusing on vehicle
technology and connectivity, and acting as the Manager of the MOBI Core
Laboratory, Flanders Make, Kortrijk, Belgium. His activities include research
and management of national and international projects in the domains of power
electronics, electric machines, electric and hybrid vehicle powertrains, and
(wireless) charging. His main research interests include power and energy
management strategies and control, design and optimization, (digital twin)
simulation, and system testing.
Dr. Baghdadi is a member of the European Power Electronics (EPE)
Association.
Omar Hegazy (Senior Member, IEEE) received
the Ph.D. degree (Hons.) from the Department
of Electrical Engineering and Energy Technology
(ETEC), Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Brussels,
Belgium, in 2012.
He is the Founder and the Leader of the
EPOWERS—Efficient Power Electronics, Power-
train and Energy Solutions—Research Group [Power
Electronics Innovation Laboratory (PEIL), Power-
train Innovation Laboratory (PIL), Power Electronics
Reliability Laboratory (PERL), and Smart Charg-
ing Laboratory (SCL)], ETEC Department, MOBI Research Center, VUB,
where he coordinates the research activities in this field in several national
projects (e.g., via Flanders Make, VLAIO (ex. IWT), Innoviris, Flux50,
etc.) and in European projects (e.g., SAFEDRIVE, UNPLUGGED, ELIPTIC,
ORCA, ASSURED, HiFi-Elements, GHOST, HiPERFORM, CEVOLVER,
OBELICS, ACHILES, LONGRUN, eCharge4drivers, iSTORMY , URBAN-
IZED, HiEFFICIENT, NextETRUCK, SiC4GRID, ZEFES, EBRT2030,
OpEV A, NEMOSHIP, NextBMS, ECOMOBILITY , INNOBMS, DIGIBATT,
BATTS, EFFEREST, GIANTS, etc.). He is also the Manager of the MOBI
Core Laboratory, Flanders Make, Kortrijk, Belgium. He has authored more
than 260 scientific publications and two patent applications. His research
interests include power electronics, electrical machines, electric and (plug-in)
hybrid electric vehicles, digital twin (DT), reliability and lifetime, charging
infrastructure, power/energy management strategies, FC (hydrogen) pow-
ertrains, battery management systems (BMS), V2X systems, optimization
techniques, and smart dc grid with renewable energy.
Prof. Hegazy is an Active Member of EGVIA, EARPA, Inside (ARTEMIS-
IA), EPE, PELS, IES, SAE, and IEC Standards.