
=== PAGE 1 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN003 Using Enhancement Mode GaN-on-Silicon Power FETs
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM   |   ©2023   | |    1
 
In an effort to make the transition from power  
MOSFETs to the new generation of power 
management devices as easy as possible, this  
paper describes the general operation of enhance-
ment mode GaN devices, gate drive techniques, 
circuit layout considerations, thermal manage -
ment techniques, and testing considerations. 
General Description of eGaN 
FETs and GaN-on-Silicon 
Technology
Structure
A device’s cost effectiveness 
starts with leveraging exist -
ing production infrastructure  
with a process with few  
production steps. Depreciated, 
low resolution CMOS foundries 
are used in the fabrication 
of eGaN FETs. EPC’s process  
begins with silicon wafers  
upon which a thin layer of  
Aluminum Nitride (AlN) is grown to isolate the 
device structure from the substrate. On top of 
this, a layer of highly resistive Gallium Nitride 
is grown. This layer provides a foundation on 
which to build the GaN transistor. Aluminum  
Gallium Nitride (AlGaN) is applied to the GaN. 
This layer produces a physical strain, and because 
GaN is a piezoelectric material, the strain attracts 
electrons to the interface. This concentration of 
electrons is called a two-dimensional electron 
gas (2DEG). Further processing forms a deple -
tion region under the gate, and metal layers are 
added to connect the three terminals, Gate, Drain, 
and Source. A cross section of this structure is  
depicted in Figure 1. This structure is repeated 
many times to form a power device. The end result 
is a fundamentally simple, elegant, cost effective  
solution for power switching. This device behaves 
similarly to silicon MOSFETs with some exceptions 
that will be explained in the following sections. 
To obtain a higher voltage device, the distance  
between the Drain and Gate is increased. As the 
resistivity of the 2DEG is very low, the impact on 
resistance by increasing blocking voltage capa -
bility is much lower when compared with silicon. 
Figure 2 shows the theoretical tradeoff between 
device on resistance and blocking voltage for GaN, 
SiC, and Si. After 30 years, silicon MOSFET develop-
ment has approached its theoretical limits. Prog -
ress in silicon has slowed to the point where small 
gains have significant development cost. GaN is 
young in its life cycle and as we have seen with 
EPC’s first four generations of eGaN FETs, progress 
in this technology is occurring very rapidly.
Operation
EPC’s eGaN FETs behave similarly to silicon Power 
MOSFETs. A positive bias on the gate relative to 
the source causes a field effect which attracts 
electrons that complete a bidirectional channel  
between the drain and the source. When the bias 
is removed from the gate, the electrons under it 
are dispersed into the GaN, recreating the deple -
tion region, and once again, giving it the capability 
to block voltage. Figures 3 and 4 show the transfer  
Using Enhancement Mode 
GaN-on-Silicon Power FETs (eGaN® FETs)
Efficient Power Conversion Corporation’s 
(EPC) hyper-fast enhancement mode 
Gallium Nitride (GaN) power transistors  
offer performance improvements well 
beyond the realm of silicon-based 
power MOSFETs. Standard power  
converter topologies can greatly benefit 
from the added performance and leap 
to performance not attainable with  
current MOSFET designs; improving 
converter efficiency, while maintaining 
the simplicity of converter designs. 
Using eGaN FETs is very similar to using 
modern power MOSFETs. However, due 
to the significantly better performance, 
there are additional design and test 
considerations to make certain devices 
are used efficiently and reliably.
EFFICIENT POWER CONVERSION
Johan Strydom, David Reusch, Steve Colino, Alana Nakata
Si
SG D
GaN
Electron Generating Layer
Dielectric
Aluminum Nitride
Isolation Layer
Figure 1 – EPC’s GaN power transistor structure.
Figure 2 – Resistance vs. breakdown voltage.
GaN Limit
101
100
10-1
10-2
10-3
10-4
101 102 103 104
SiC Limit
Si Limit
Breakdown Voltage (V)
Ron  (Ω mm2)

=== PAGE 2 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN003 Using Enhancement Mode GaN-on-Silicon Power FETs
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM   |   ©2023   | |    2
Figure 6: Effect of dv/dt on a device in the off-state and requirements for avoiding Miller-induced shoot-through.
Figure 3 – transfer characteristics curve for EPC2001.   Figure 4 - RDS(on) vs VGS for various current for EPC2001.
characteristics and R DS(on) vs. V GS of the EPC2001  
respectively. The transfer characteristics show the 
current capability as V GS varies. This is very similar  
to MOSFETs except the transconductance (di d/
dvgs) is much higher for eGaN FETs of similar R DS(on).  
The R DS(on) vs. V GS curve shows that R DS(on) becomes 
reasonably flat beyond VGS = 4 V.
Drain to Source Maximum Voltage Rating
The maximum drain to source breakdown voltage 
(BVDSS) is specified in EPC GaN transistor datasheets. 
Special considerations have to be taken when 
switching inductive loads. These types of loads 
present a possibility of the drain voltage exceeding 
the maximum rating due to inductive “kickback” . 
This phenomenon will cause the drain voltage to  
increase beyond the breakdown and dissipate 
the energy from the inductor in the device. EPC’s 
GaN transistors are not rated for avalanche mode 
operation, but they do have an overshoot rating 
of 20% over the BV DSS for 10,000 cycles of 5 ms or 
less in duration. If the devices will be subjected to 
higher voltages or more repetitions, proper active or  
passive clamps/snubbers must be used to limit 
the rise in the V DS to a safe level. Also, proper  
layout techniques must be used to limit the  
parasitic inductance in the circuit and hence limit 
the stray inductive energy present in the system. 
Gate Drive
eGaN FETs differ from their silicon counterparts be-
cause of their significantly faster switching speeds 
and consequently have different requirements for 
gate drive, layout, and thermal management which 
can all be interactive.
ID – Drain Current (A)
VGS – Gate -to-Source Voltage (V)
150
120
90
60
30
00.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5
VDS  = 3 V
25˚C
125˚C
RDS(on)  – Drain-to-Source Resistance (mΩ)
VGS – Gate-to-Source Voltage (V)
20
25
15
10
5
0
2.5 2 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 
ID = 10 A
ID = 20 A
ID = 40 A
ID = 80 A
Do Not Exceed Gate Drive Maximum Ratings
As seen in Figure 4, full enhancement of the device 
channel can be achieved by applying 4 V or greater 
between the gate and source while the absolute 
maximum gate-to-source voltage is 6 V. Similar 
to the Power MOSFET, the equivalent gate circuit  
consists of a small gate resistance and a small gate 
capacitance (Figure 5). When used in a half bridge 
configuration, care must be taken to not over-volt -
age or under-voltage the gate. 
dv/dt Immunity
A high, positive-voltage slew rate (dv/dt) on the 
drain of an off-state device can occur in both hard- 
and soft-
switching  
applications, 
and is charac -
terized by a 
quick charg -
ing of the device’s capacitances as depicted 
in Figure 6. During this dv/dt event, the drain-
source capacitance (C DS) is charged. Concur -
rently, the gate-drain (C GD) and gate-source (C GS)  
capacitors in series also are charged. If unaddressed, 
the charging current through the CGD capacitor will 
flow through and charge C GS beyond V TH and turn 
the device on. This event, sometimes called Miller 
turn-on and well known to MOSFET users, can be 
very dissipative.
To determine the dv/dt susceptibility of a power 
device, a Miller charge ratio (Q GD/QGS1), as a func -
tion of drain-to-source voltage, needs to be evalu -
ated. A Miller ratio of less than one will guarantee 
Figure 5: EPC GaN power transistor gate structure.
RG
QG
Gate
Source
High dv/dt Event
High dv/dt Current Paths
GaN Transistor
Keep < Vth
Gate Drive
RSink
C GD
CGS
CDS
R G

=== PAGE 3 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN003 Using Enhancement Mode GaN-on-Silicon Power FETs
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM   |   ©2023   | |    3
theoretical dv/dt immunity [1]. In Figure 7, the large 
reduction of Miller ratios in EPC’s latest generation 
eGaN FETs is shown, reduced by at least a factor of 
two and resulting in the entire product line falling 
below a value of 1 at half their rated voltage. Also 
plotted, as triangular dots, in Figure 7 are Miller  
ratios for current silicon MOSFETs which in general 
are much higher.
di/dt Immunity
A rising current through an off-state device, as 
shown in Figure 8, will induce a step voltage across 
the common-source inductance (CSI). This positive 
voltage step will induce an opposing voltage across 
CGS. For a rising current, this causes the gate voltage 
to be driven to a negative value and, with insuffi -
cient damping of the off-state gate loop LCR reso -
nant tank, this initial negative voltage step across 
the gate could induce positive ringing and cause an 
unintended turn-on and shoot-through as shown in 
Figure 9.
It is possible to avoid this type of di/dt turn-on 
by sufficiently damping the gate turn-off loop,  
although some level of undershoot may be  
preferred as described in the dv/dt immunity case 
above. However, increasing the gate turn-off power 
loop damping through an increase in gate pull-
down resistance would negatively impact dv/dt 
immunity. Thus, adjusting gate resistance alone for 
devices with marginal Miller charge ratios may not 
be enough to avoid di/dt and/or dv/dt turn-on. 
A better solution is to limit the size of the CSI  
through improved packaging and device layout.  
This is accomplished by separating the gate and 
power loops to as close to the GaN device as possi -
ble, and minimizing the internal source inductance 
of the GaN device, which will remain common to 
both loops. 
For a more detailed discussion on the impact of 
inductance on circuit performance please see our 
white paper: Impact of Parasitics on Performance.
Figure 7: The Miller ratio of 2nd and 4th generation eGaN FETs and state-of-the-art Si MOSFETs for  
drain-to-source voltages at half their rated voltage.
Figure 8: Impact of a positive di/dt of an off-state device with common-source inductance.
Figure 9: di/dt induced turn-on (shoot-through) of an off-state device with under-damped gate  
turn-off power loop.
EPC Gen 4
EPC Gen 2
Vendor A
Vendor C
Vendor D
Vendor E
Vendor B
0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
Drain-to-Source Voltage (V)
0 50 100 150 200 250
eGaN FETs 2011
eGaN FETs 2014
2.5x
2.5x2.0x
Miller Ratio = Q GD/QGSI
GaN Transistor
Positive di/dt Generates 
Voltage Across CSI
Opposing
Voltage Induced
Across Gate
Gate Current
LCR Resonant Tank
CSI
_
+
S
Drain Current
D
Gate Drive
G
R Sink
R G
C GD
C DS
C GS
+
–
VGS
VDS
Vth
IDS
di/dt Due to 
Complementary Device 
Turn-On 
Body Diode 
Conduction 
di/dt Induced Step On 
Gate Voltage Due to CSI 
0 
Under-Damped Ringing Above 
Threshold Voltage Causing 
Shoot-Through 
Sudden Damping of Ringing 

=== PAGE 4 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN003 Using Enhancement Mode GaN-on-Silicon Power FETs
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM   |   ©2023   | |    4
Below are the key characteristics of preferred gate drivers 
for EPC GaN transistors. For a controller to be functional 
with eGaN FETs, its driver would also need the following:
•  Ground bounce immunity: The gate driver design 
should be made with the assumption that the driver  
ground and the controller ground can differ signifi-
cantly, and the input logic pin must be immune to 
noise-induced changes in logic state.
•  High dv/dt immunity for high-side drivers: logic-
isolators or level-shifters used to transfer the  
control logic signal to the floating high-side  
device need to be immune to high dv/dt rise and 
fall times without changing the logic state. For 
100 V and below, 50 V/ns immunity should be suf-
ficient, while higher voltages require increasingly 
higher dv/dt immunity.
•  Low inductance surface mount package and op -
timized pin-out: The gate drive and high-speed 
GaN device need to be closely connected with 
the interconnection impedance minimized. This  
requires pin-outs and packaging options that 
complement the GaN transistor. QFN/DFN or  
WLCSP packages are preferred. Complementary 
pin-outs have the VBS/HG/VSW next to each other 
and VCC/LG/PGND next to each other. 
•  Gate power loop inductance minimization: The gate 
driver should be designed to minimize the induc-
tance between the V DD supply capacitor and the 
actual gate driver power devices (sink and source 
devices). This will minimize gate driver rise time and 
maximize driver di/dt. Driving the smaller Genera-
tion 3 devices with input capacitance in the 50 pF 
range are best served by a driver with rise and fall 
times in the 500 ps range or below.
• Gate drive strength: For a general purpose GaN 
driver, the speed of the driver needs to be matched 
to the size and speed of the device being driven. 
This flexibility requires a low-resistance gate driver 
with the option of additional external resistors. 
Gate drive strength in the 1 to 3 ohm range for pull 
up/ pull down is preferred. 
•  Gate drive strength for pull up / pull down should 
be in the 1 to 3 ohm range. If it is larger it will be too 
slow (or limited to lower power applications), while 
much smaller can induce ringing issues - especially 
when in combination with high inductance wire-
bonded packages.
•  Regulation of gate drive supply voltage: Both low-
side drivers, and especially high-side drivers, need 
to regulate the gate drive supply voltage to avoid 
an over-voltage condition on the transistor gate. 
Gate drive specification should be 5 V ±0.5 V max, 
5 V ±0.25 V is preferred.
• Dead-time: Minimizing dead-time will limit the  
loss component of the ‘body-diode’ forward volt-
age. Dead-time of 20 ns or less is preferred. For a 
more detailed discussion of dead-time manage -
ment for eGaN FETs please see the white paper: 
Dead-Time Optimization for Maximum Efficiency
•  High Frequency Operation: eGaN FETs are capable 
of switching frequencies greater than 10 MHz. An 
optimized gate driver for high frequency operation 
would include low minimum on-time, minimal in-
ternal capacitance between ground and the high 
side supply as well as a bootstrap supply with mini-
mal reverse recovery, such as available through the 
use of an external schottky diode.  
For a more detailed discussion please see eGaN® FET 
Drivers and Layout Considerations 
For a current listing of enhancement-mode GaN 
compatible IC’s, please see www.epc-co.com/epc/
Products/eGaNDrivers.aspx 
Layout Considerations
Due to the fast switching and high current-car -
rying capability of EPC’s GaN transistors, special 
considerations should be taken into account when 
designing printed circuit boards utilizing these de-
vices. To illustrate this we will look at the example 
of a buck converter.
In a practical buck converter, there are two major 
parasitic inductances, as shown in Figure 10, which 
have a significant impact on converter performance:
1. Common source inductance, L S, is the induc -
tance shared by the drain to source power current 
path and gate driver loop.
2. High frequency power loop inductance, L LOOP, is 
the power commutation loop and comprised of the 
parasitic inductance from the positive terminal of 
the input capacitance, through the top device, syn-
chronous rectifier, ground loop, and input capacitor.
Top
Switch
Synchronous
Recti/f_ier
L
L S
L LOOP
CIN COUT
Driver
Figure 10: Synchronous buck converter with parasitic 
inductances
frequency loop inductance is controlled by the PCB 
layout and package inductance. In applications 
utilizing low package parasitics, such as with the 
eGaN FETs’ LGA, the PCB layout dominates the high  
frequency loop inductance [7]-[10].
With the significant reduction in package related  
inductance provided by the eGaN FET, the common 
source inductance is minimized and is no longer the 
major parasitic loss contributor. The high frequency 
loop inductance, controlled by PCB layout becomes 
the major contributor to loss, making layout using the 
eGaN FETs critical to high frequency performance.
The common source inductance, L S, has been 
shown to be critical to performance because 
it directly impacts the driving speed of the  
devices [2]-[4]. The common source induc -
tance is mainly controlled by the package in -
ductance of the device, and varies from pack -
age to package [5], [6]. For the eGaN FET, the LGA  
package (Figure 11b) offers low common source  
inductance, reducing loss, as shown in Figure 11a.
The high frequency loop inductance, L LOOP, impacts 
the switching commutation time and the peak drain 
to source voltage spike of the devices. The high  
Gate 
Drain Contacts
Source Contacts
Substrate
(b) 
(a)
3 
3.5 
4 
4.5 
5 
5.5 Power Loss (W) 
0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.1 2.4 2.7 3 
Parasitic Inductance (nH) 
LS
L LOOP
MOSFET 
Packaging
eGaN FET 
Packaging
Figure 11: (a) Parasitic inductance impact on power loss (VIN = 12 V, VOUT = 1.2 V, IOUT = 20 A, FSW = 1 MHz) 
         Top Switch: EPC2015, Synchronous Rectifier EPC2015 (b) eGaN FET LGA package

=== PAGE 5 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN003 Using Enhancement Mode GaN-on-Silicon Power FETs
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM   |   ©2023   | |    5
Optimal eGaN FET Layout for Reduced Parasitics
To enable the high switching speed available from 
the eGaN FETs, devices were developed in land grid 
array (LGA) packages that not only have low internal 
inductance, but enable user to design ultra-low in -
ductance into their board. To provide the benefits of 
reduced loop size, magnetic field self-cancellation, 
consistent inductance independent of board thick -
ness, a single sided PCB design, and high efficiency 
for a multi-layer structure, an optimal layout is pro -
posed for eGaN FETs. The design utilizes the first 
inner layer, shown in Figure 12b, as a power loop 
return path. This return path is located directly un -
derneath the top layer’s power loop, Figure 12a, al-
lowing for the smallest physical loop size combined 
with field self-cancellation. The side view (Figure 
12c) illustrates the concept of creating a low profile 
self-cancelling loop in a multilayer PCB. 
The improved layout places the input capacitors in 
close proximity to the top device, with the positive 
input voltage terminals located next to the drain 
connections of the top eGaN FET. The eGaN FETs 
are located in the same positions as the lateral and 
vertical power loop cases. Located between the two 
eGaN FETs is a series of interleaved switching node 
and ground vias arranged to match the LGA fingers 
of the synchronous rectifier eGaN FET. The inter -
leaved switching node and ground vias are dupli -
cated on the bottom side of the synchronous rectifi-
er. These interleaved vias provide three advantages: 
(1) The via set located in between the two eGaN 
FETs provides a reduced-length high frequency 
loop inductance path leading to lower parasitic in -
ductance. 
(2) The via set located beneath the synchronous 
rectifier eGaN FET provides additional vias for  
reduced resistance during the synchronous rectifier 
eGaN FET freewheeling period, reducing conduc -
tion losses. 
(3) The interleaving of the via sets with current flow-
ing in opposing direction allows for reduced eddy 
and proximity effects, reducing AC conduction losses.
Thermal Considerations
A high density power device must not only be 
more electrically efficient by generating less heat, 
but also enable superior heat conduction proper -
ties. The thermal efficiency of a package can be 
determined by comparing the two parameters, R θ JC 
and Rθ JB, normalized to the package area. R θ JC is the 
thermal resistance from junction-to-case, this is 
(c)
(a) (b)
x 
x 
Figure 12: Proposed optimal power loop with eGaN FETs (a) Top view (b) Top view of inner layer 1 (c) Side view
Device Package RθJC  (ºC/W) RθJB  (ºC/W) Area (mm2)
Blade [11] 1 1.6 10.2
CanPAK S [12] 2.9 1 18.2
CanPAK M [13] 1.4 1 30.9
S308 [14] - 1.8 10.9
S308 Dual Cool [15] 3.5 2.7 10.9
Super SO8 [16] 20 0.9 30.0
Super SO8 Dual Cool [17] 1.2 1.1 30.0
EPC2001 eGaN FET [18] 1.0 2.0 6.7
EPC2021 eGaN FET [19] 0.5 1.4 13.9
TABLE 1: Comparison of Package Area and Thermal Resistance Components RθJC  and RθJB
the thermal resistance from the active part of the 
eGaN FET to the top of the silicon substrate, includ-
ing the sidewalls. Rθ JB is the thermal resistance from 
junction-to-board, this is the thermal resistance 
from the active part of the eGaN FET to the printed  
circuit board. For this path the heat must transfer 
through the solder bars to the copper traces on the 
board. In Table 1 is a compilation of thermally relat-
ed characteristics for several popular surface mount 
MOSFET packages as well as two popular eGaN FETs.
Figure 13 shows a plot of the junction-to-board  
resistance (R θ JB) for each of the packages given in 
Table 1. Red square dots represent the MOSFET 
packages, and blue circular dots represent the  
eGaN FETs. The majority of the sampled packages 
fall on a single trend line indicating that perfor -
mance for this element of thermal resistance is  
determined primarily by package size, and not tech-
nology. In contrast, in Figure 14 shows a plot of the 
thermal resistance from junction to case (R θ JC). The 
CanPAK and double-sided cooling SO8 packages are 
far less efficient at extracting the heat out of the top 
of the package than either the Blade package or the 
eGaN FETs. The eGaN FETs, however, are over 30% 
lower than even the Blade [11] when normalized to 
the same area. This makes the eGaN FETs the most 
efficient thermal package for double sided cooling 
and most suitable for high density power designs.

=== PAGE 6 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN003 Using Enhancement Mode GaN-on-Silicon Power FETs
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM   |   ©2023   | |    6
Device Area (mm )2
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
RθJB_GaN
0
0.5
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
1.0
RθJB, Thermal Resistance (˚C/W)
RθJB_Si
Device Area (mm )2
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
0
0.5
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
1.0
RθJC, Thermal Resistance (˚C/W)
RθJC_GaN
RθJC_Si
Figure 13: Rθ JB (Junction-to-Board Thermal Resistance) for several package styles 
listed in table 1, eGaN FETs represented by blue circular dots and Si MOSFETs  
represented by red square dots.
Figure 14: Rθ JC (Junction-to-Case Thermal Resistance) for several package styles listed 
in table 1, eGaN FETs represented by blue circular dots and Si MOSFETs  
represented by red square dots.
A further advantage of EPC’s GaN transistors is the 
capability for thermal resistance improvements to 
both thermal heat paths as shown in Figure 15. 
First, the PCB-to-ambient thermal resistance can 
be reduced through the addition of thermal vias, 
but with the thermal vias connecting to internal 
and external copper layers to spread the heat later-
ally. Secondly, the thermal interface material (TIM) 
resistance can be reduced in two ways:
1) By reducing the thickness of the device-to-heat -
sink interface: typically some form of spacer be -
tween heatsink and devices are required together 
with a TIM, as any mounting force applied to the 
heatsink cannot be transferred to the device for 
fear of cracking. This spacer determines the mini -
mum distance between the heatsink and GaN de -
vices.
2) By placing the thermal interface material on all 
sides of the devices and not just the top (case): this 
reduces thermal resistance, as the surface area of 
the device perimeter side walls is larger than the 
top surface, as shown in Figure 16.
Further improvements are possible by utilizing 
dual-sided heatsinking, forced-air cooling and 
through the use of exotic PCB materials, such as 
DBC (direct bonded copper) [20], or IMS (insulated 
metal substrate). 
 
Thermal Interface Material Copper Heat Spreading
Heatsink
LGASpacer
PCB
Figure 15: Thermal diagram of board-mounted LGA GaN transistors with dual-sided cooling showing top-side 
heatsink and thermal vias with heat spreading through PCB.
Figure 16: Diagram of an LGA GaN transistor showing the die surface area and area of die perimeter.
EPC2001
Perimeter of die adds additional surface area
Part
Number
Die Area
(mm2)
Perimeter
Area (mm2)
EPC2015
EPC2007
EPC2014
EPC2010
EPC2012
6.70
1.85
5.80
1.57
7.86
3.82
7.10
3.60

=== PAGE 7 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN003 Using Enhancement Mode GaN-on-Silicon Power FETs
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM   |   ©2023   | |    7
Using Device Models to Simulate Circuit Behavior
Although enhancement-mode devices are made to 
operate similarly to silicon MOSFETs, they cannot 
be readily modeled with traditional physics-based 
MOSFET models, as the physics of the GaN transis -
tor is significantly different. The models developed 
for EPC’s enhancement mode GaN transistors [21] 
are a hybrid of physics-based and phenomeno -
logical functions to achieve a compact spice model 
with acceptable simulation and convergence  
characteristics. Temperature effects have also been 
included for conductivity and threshold parameters. 
The basic equivalent circuit for an enhancement 
mode GaN transistor is shown in Figure 17. The 
main components are: a voltage-controlled cur -
rent source ID, capacitors, CGD, CGS, and C DS, and the  
termination resistors - RS, RD, and RG.
As a demonstration of device model and circuit 
considerations, a simple circuit was built and tested 
to compare device performance with that predicted 
by the model (Figure 18).
The circuit consisted of a voltage source charging 
a 13 μF cap through a 10 k  resistor used to isolate 
the voltage source from the device under test. The 
GaN transistor is driven with a 5 V pulse and the  
capacitor is discharged through a 0.8  resistor and 
the device with a 0.1  stray resistance. Comparison 
of the simulated results for the demo circuit show 
reasonable correlation with the measured values. 
Although not perfect, overshoot and ringing is 
qualitatively reproduced. Figure 19 shows the over-
lay of the gate and drain voltages vs. time for the 
measured and simulated circuit.
The models developed by EPC accurately repro -
duce the basic response of the devices under  
circuit operation conditions. Models for EPC devices 
are available for download from the EPC website 
(https://epc-co.com/epc/design-support/device-
models). 
Curve Tracer and Auto-Testing Considerations
EPC enhancement mode GaN transistors generally 
behave like n-channel power MOSFETs. Common 
curve tracers, parametric analyzers, and automatic 
discrete device parametric testers that are used 
for an n-channel power MOSFET will be applicable 
for the characterization of GaN transistors. Below 
are some general guidelines for characterizing 
DC parameters using a Tektronix 576 curve tracer, 
Keithley 238 parametric analyzer, or a TESEC 881-
TT/A discrete device test system.
ID (VGS, VDS)C (VGS ,VDS)GS C (VGS,VDS)GS
C (VGS1  VDS)GD
RD
RS
RG
G_EXT
G_EXT
S_EXT
DG
S
S_EXT
D_EXT
D_EXT
+
–
10 kΩ
100 VDC
Max
5 VDC
VDRIVER
1 nH
13 µF 2 nH
Drain
Source
Gate
0.8 Ω
0.1 Ω 50 Ω
100 Ω
Figure 17: Equivalent circuit implemented by the GaN transistor model.
Figure 18: Schematic of basic demo circuit.
Figure 19: Comparison of simulated and measured demo circuit.
20
0.0E+00 5.0E-08 1.0E-07 2.0E-07 3.0E-07 4.0E-071.5E-07 2.5E-07 3.5E-07
Time (S)
Drain Voltage (V)
15
10
5
0
-5
VGATE
VDRAIN
SIM v(DRAIN)
SIM v(GATE)

=== PAGE 8 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN003 Using Enhancement Mode GaN-on-Silicon Power FETs
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM   |   ©2023   | |    8
Caution: GaN transistors are sensitive 
to static. GaN transistors have very  
low capacitances and a low maximum 
allowed gate voltage. Wrist straps, 
grounding mats, and other ESD precau -
tions must be followed to avoid exceed -
ing maximum device ratings.
Caution for VTH curve tracer testing: 
If there is no gate resistor (R G) in series 
with the gate during the V TH measure -
ment, you may see an oscillation on the 
gate which will result in a typical S curve 
like that shown in Figure 20. The oscil -
lation voltage can become many times 
the input voltage. THESE OSCILLATIONS 
CAN DAMAGE OR DESTROY THE DEVICE.
VTH Measurement
VTH is the gate-source voltage (VDS = V GS) which pro-
duces a specified drain current on the datasheet. This 
test is typically done with the drain and gate shorted.
0.0E+00
5.0E-04
1.0E-03
1.5E-03
2.0E-03
2.5E-03
3.0E-03
3.5E-03
4.0E-03
4.5E-03
5.0E-03
0 0.2 0.4 0.60 .8 11 .2 1.4
Bias (Drain/Gate to Source)(V)
Current (Drain to Source) (A)
With Rg
Without Rg
IGSS Measurement
IGSS is the gate-source leakage current with the drain 
shorted to the source.
Do not exceed 6 V on the gate in the positive direc-
tion or 4 V in the negative direction as that is the 
maximum gate rating for the device.
It is very important to have a very low resistance 
short between the drain and the source in order to 
get an accurate I GSS measurement. It is not recom -
mended to use the Autorange function during I GSS 
testing on an automated tester such as a TESEC 881-
TT/A, as range-changes during testing can lead to 
voltage spiking which may destroy the gate.
RDS(on) Measurement
RDS(on) is the drain to source resistance with VGS = 5 V. 
Since RDS(on) is sensitive to temperature, it is impor -
tant to minimize heating of the junction during the 
test. A drain pulse test is therefore used to measure 
RDS(on). Accurate R DS(on) measurement requires the 
use of Kelvin Sense on both drain and source. The 
locations of sense points have a strong influence 
on RDS(on) reading. It is not recommended to use the 
Autorange function during R DS(on) testing on an au -
tomated tester such as a TESEC 881-TT/A, as range-
changes during testing can lead to voltage spiking 
which may destroy the gate.
It is not recommended to use needles on a bare 
die to measure RDS(on). Too high current density 
at the probe needle/solder bump contacts could 
damage the device.
IDSS / BVDSS Measurement
BVDSS is the rated voltage of the device at V GS = 0 V. 
IDSS is the drain current at a specified drain-source 
voltage which is equal or less than the rated voltage 
of the device, with V = 0 V.
The true breakdown voltage for a GaN device 
from EPC is generally well above the maximum 
drain-source Voltage rating of the device. There -
fore a BV DSS test should not be done on the device  
because the maximum VDSS rating will be exceeded. 
Degradation of device RDS(on) may be seen if the max 
rating is exceeded. It is also very important to short 
the gate and the source to avoid floating the gate 
with respect to the source and accidentally turning 
on the device. The device could be damaged during 
the IDSS testing if this occurs.
As with I GSS and R DS(on) measurements, it is not rec -
ommended to use the Autorange function during 
IDSS testing on an automated tester such as a TESEC 
881-TT/A, as range-changes during testing can lead 
to voltage spiking which may destroy the gate. 
The use of “Function BVDSS” should also be avoided  
because the measurement of the drain-source volt-
age at a fixed drain current may exceed device V DS 
maximum rating.
Users should first verify that there is no spiking 
above voltage test settings during the I DSS mea -
surements. It is recommended to use a controlled  
voltage ramp to aid in avoiding voltage overshoot.
It is very important to short the gate and the source 
to avoid floating the gate with respect to the source 
and accidentally turning on the device. The device 
could be damaged during the I DSS testing if this  
occurs. It is not sufficient to set the gate to 0 V; you 
must have a very low resistance short from the gate 
to the source.
A Final Note
How easy a device is to use depends on the skill of 
the user, the degree of difficulty of the circuit under 
development, how different the device is compared 
with devices within the experience of the user, and 
the tools available to help the user apply the device.
The new generation of enhancement mode GaN 
transistor is very similar in its behavior to existing 
power MOSFETs, only much faster, and therefore 
users can greatly leverage their past design experi -
ence and achieve new levels of performance in their 
products. The relatively high frequency response of 
eGaN FETs, is both a step function improvement 
over any prior silicon devices, and an added consid-
eration for the user when laying out circuits.
Figure 20: Comparison of VTH curves with and without a gate resistor for a 100 V eGaN FET.

=== PAGE 9 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN003 Using Enhancement Mode GaN-on-Silicon Power FETs
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM   |   ©2023   | |    9
On the other hand, there are several characteristics 
that render these devices easier to use than their sil-
icon predecessors. For example, the threshold volt-
age is virtually independent of temperature over a 
wide range, and the on-resistance has a significantly 
lower temperature coefficient than silicon.
Table 2 is a summary comparison between a silicon 
power MOSFET and an EPC2001C GaN transistor’s 
basic characteristics.
User-friendly tools can also make a big difference 
in how easy it is to apply a new type of device. EPC 
has developed a complete set of device models 
available for user download. These models provide 
reasonably reliable circuit performance predictions 
that can enhance the engineer’s productivity and 
the time it takes to get a product to market.
Application notes and design tips codify the collec-
tive experience of engineers over the years. EPC’s 
Design Support Material (https://epc-co.com/epc/
design-support) contains an extensive collection of 
application notes, white papers, and scholarly jour-
nals. Also, in its second edition, GaN Transistors for  
Efficient Power Conversion  [22], is the defining 
textbook on GaN technology and its applications. 
The power MOSFET is not dead, but is nearing the 
end of the road of major improvements in perfor -
mance and cost. GaN is positioned to become the 
dominant technology over the next decade due to 
its large advantages in both performance and cost; 
advantage gaps that promise to widen as we plum-
met down the learning curve.
References:
[1] Wu, T. “Cdv/dt Induced Turn-On In Synchronous 
Buck Regulators” , white paper, International Recti-
fier Corporation 
[2] A. Elbanhawy, “Effects of parasitic inductances 
on switching performance, ” in Proc. PCIM Eur., May 
2003, pp. 251–255.
[3] G. Nobauer, D. Ahlers, J. Sevillano-Ruiz, “A  
method to determine parasitic inductances in buck 
converter topologies, ” in Proc. PCIM Eur., May 2004, 
pp. 37–41.
[4] B. Yang, J. Zhang, “Effect and utilization of  
common source inductance in synchronous rectifi -
cation, ” in Proc. IEEE APEC’05, Mar. 2005, vol. 3, pp. 
1407–1411.
Typical 100 V Power MOSFET EPC2001C Enhancement-Mode GaN
Max Gate-Source Voltage ± 20 V +6 V / -5 V
Operating Temperature 150°C 150°C
Avalanche Energy OK Not Rated
Gate Threshold 2-4 V 0.8-2.5 V
Gate-Source Leakage few nA few uA
Gate Resistance few Ω 0.3 Ω
Switching Charge high very low
Reverse Diode Recover Charge high zero
Ratio RDS(on) 125˚C / 25˚C 2.2 1.65
Ratio VTH 125˚C / 25˚C 0.66 0.95
Table 2: Summary comparison between 100 V silicon Power MOSFET and 100 V eGaN FET
[5] M. Pavier, A. Woodworth, A. Sawle, R. Monteiro, 
C. Blake, and J. Chiu, “Understanding the effect of 
power MOSFET package parasitic on VRM circuit  
efficiency at frequencies above 1 MHz, ” in Proc. 
PCIM Eur., May 2003, pp. 279–284.
[6] D. Reusch, D. Gilham, Y. Su and F.C. Lee, “Gallium 
nitride based multi-megahertz high density 3D 
point of load module, ” APEC 2012. pp.38-45. Feb. 
2012.
[7] T. Hashimoto, T. Kawashima, T. Uno, Y. Satou, N. 
Matsuura, “System in package with mounted ca -
pacitor for reduced parasitic inductance in voltage 
regulators, ” Applied Power Electronics Conference 
and Exposition, 2008. APEC 2008. Twenty-Third  
Annual IEEE, pp.187-191, 24-28 Feb. 2008.
[8] Y. Kawaguchi, T. Kawano, H. Takei, S. Ono, A. Nak-
agawa, “Multi Chip Module with Minimum Parasitic 
Inductance for New Generation Voltage Regulator, ” 
Power Semiconductor Devices and ICs, 2005.
[9] A. Ball, M. Lim, D. Gilham, F.C Lee, “System design 
of a 3D integrated non-isolated Point Of Load con -
verter, ” Applied Power Electronics Conference and 
Exposition, 2008. Twenty-Third Annual IEEE, pp.181-
186, 24-28 Feb. 2008.
[10] D. Reusch, F.C. Lee, Y. Su, D. Gilham, “Optimiza-
tion of a High Density Gallium Nitride Based Non-
Isolated Point of Load Module, ” Energy Conversion 
Congress and Exposition (ECCE), IEEE, Sept. 2012.
 [11] Infineon Blade BSN012N03LS datasheet, www.
infineon.com 
[12] Infineon CanPAK S-size BSF134N10NJ3 G data -
sheet, www.infineon.com
[13]  Infineon CanPAK M-size BSB012N03LX3 G 
datasheet, www.infineon.com
[14] Infineon S3O8 BSZ075N08NS5 datasheet, 
www.infineon.com 
[15] Texas Instruments S308 Dual Cool SON 
3.3x3.3mm CSD16323Q3C datasheet, www.TI.com 
[16] Super SO8 BSC010N04LS datasheet, www.infi -
neon.com 
[17] Texas Instruments Super SO8 Dual Cool SON 
5x6mm CSD16321Q5C datasheet, www.TI.com
[18] Efficient Power Conversion EPC2001 datasheet, 
https://epc-co.com/epc/products/gan-fets-and-
ics/epc2001 
[19] Efficient Power Conversion EPC2021 datasheet, 
https://epc-co.com/epc/products/gan-fets-
and-ics/epc2021
[20] D. Reusch, “High Frequency, High Power Den -
sity Integrated Point of Load and Bus Converters,” 
Ph.D. dissertation, Virginia Tech, http://scholar.
lib.vt.edu/theses/available/etd-04162012-
151740/ 2012.
[21] R. Beach, A.Babakhani, R. Strittmatter, “Circuit 
simulation using EPC device models,” epc-co.
com/epc/documents/product-training/Cir -
cuit_Simulations_Using_Device_Models.
pdf
[22] A. Lidow, J. Strydom, M. de Rooij, D. Reusch 
“GaN Transistors for Efficient Power Conversion,” 
Second Edition, Wiley, ISBN 978-1-118-84476-2.