
=== PAGE 1 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |   ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    1
Design of High Current Nanosecond 
Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, 
Lidar, and other Applications
EFFICIENT POWER CONVERSION
John S. Glaser, Director of Applications Engineering; Efficient Power Conversion Corporation Revised June 3, 2025
1.0  Abstract
Gallium nitride (GaN) power FETs and ICs have found broad application in nanosecond high current pulse generators. One application 
in particular, time-of-flight (ToF) lidar, has been enabled by cost-effective GaN-based diode laser  drivers capable of generating current 
pulses with pulse widths of a few nanoseconds and peak currents of tens to hundreds of amps. EPC has been at the forefront of this and 
other applications that benefit from the extreme speed, repetitive peak current capability, low inductance and high reliability inherent 
to GaN power semiconductor technology. EPC supports a wide range of current pulse capability, and makes available a series of 
development boards so that engineers needing or wanting this capability can get up to speed quickly. The schematics, bills of material, 
and PCB layout files for these designs are freely available for download. High current pulse drivers are conceptually simple, but they 
are dominated by parasitics, especially inductance, and this presents many challenges. This article attempts to provide the basic 
background and design methods that are used to achieve repeatable and predictable single digit nanosecond high current pulses. 
2.0  Introduction
Gallium nitride (GaN) power FETs and ICs 
have demonstrated order-of-magnitude 
improvements in performance figures-
of-merit over silicon MOSFETs while 
achieving cost parity to silicon on an 
equal voltage and R
DS(on)  basis [1]. The key 
improvements are increased switching 
speed and decreased size, and the 
obvious application is switched-mode 
power conversion. Hence, the rapidly 
increasing adoption of GaN in power 
converters is not surprising, especially 
for those uses needing superior 
efficiency, power density, and reliability. 
Less predictable is the enabling of 
new applications that previously 
simply didn’t exist, were impractical, or 
astronomically expensive. One recent 
example is the development of cost-
effective time-of-flight (ToF) lidar-based 
three-dimensional imaging, which is 
finding widespread use in autonomous 
navigation for many applications includ- 
ing automotive ADAS systems and 
robots
 [2], [3], [4], [5]. GaN power devices 
have made possible the development and 
commercialization of cost-effective lidar 
systems because they enable tiny laser 
diode drivers capable of pulses of 10s to 
100s of amps in a few short nanoseconds. 
What does tiny mean? As a point of 
reference, one of the designs in this article 
uses a 2 x 3.5 x 0.64 mm chip-scale GaN 
FET to drive lasers with pulses in excess 
of 200 A at tens or hundreds of kilohertz 
for years, i.e. many trillions of pulses with 
no signs of degradation [6]. All this can be 
accomplished with standard PCBs and at 
low cost with few components.
While this article will focus on laser diode 
drivers for lidar applications, the design 
methods are suitable for any application 
where high current nanosecond pulses are 
needed. It is safe to say that this a wide open 
space, because the capability is new. Diode 
laser machining, high-power impulse radar, 
and medical imaging might be possibilities, 
and the reader is invited to use their imagi-
nation. What can you do with tens or hun-
dreds of amps in a few nanoseconds?
This article will cover the following 
topics: First, there will be short 
discussion of lidar, laser diodes, and 
pulse requirements. This will be 
followed by a review of GaN power 
semiconductor technology with an eye 
towards pulse power applications. Next 
will be an introduction to resonant 
pulse laser drivers, followed by a 
detailed discussion of resonant pulse 
circuit design and a design procedure. 
This will be followed by a design 
example based on EPCs EPC9179 laser 
driver [7]. The next section will present 
experimental results of EPC’s laser 
drivers. The last technical section will 
cover a broad array of ancillary topics 
including alternate driver topologies, 
voltage and current sensing, and 
resonant capacitor charging, as well 
as potential design pitfalls. Finally, 
the Appendix summarizes currently 
active EPC demonstration boards 
targeted at lidar and other high current 
nanosecond pulse applications.

=== PAGE 2 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    2
Figure 1. Basic lidar system
Figure 2. Simplified operation of DToF lidar system
3-D point cloud
Target
Laser
transmitter Receiver
Signal processing
Scan optics Transmitted beam
Re/f_lected beam
TX
RX
Transmission
∆t
t0 t1
Re/f_lection
3.0  Lidar and the need for high 
power laser transmitters
Lidar is a form of radar where the electro- 
magnetic radiation happens to be in the 
optical band [8]. A typical lidar system is shown 
in Figure 1. In the last few years, one particular 
form of lidar, time-of-flight (ToF) distance 
measurement, has become commercially 
produced in high volume. If a laser is used 
as the optical source, one can measure the 
distance of a small spot even at long range. 
When combined with steerable optics, one 
can sweep the spot distance measurement 
and map objects in 3D space.
There are two main kinds of ToF lidar: direct 
time-of-flight (DToF) and indirect time-of-
flight (IToF). We will look only at DToF lidar 
requirements in this article. The basic operating 
principle is shown in Figure 2. In DToF systems, 
single pulses are transmitted, reflected from 
a target and detected. The time between the 
transmitted and detected pulses, i.e. the time 
of flight, is measured and the distance can be 
calculated from Equation 1:
td = 2d/c
Please keep in mind that this is a very simplified 
view, but the basic principle is valid.
4.0  DToF lidar transmitter 
requirements
DToF lidar requires short duration, high power 
optical pulses of a specified wavelength, 
and these requirements usually come to the 
transmitter designer from the lidar system 
design level. System level concerns are typically 
range, field of view, pixel count, frame rate, and 
operating environment. The latter may include 
sources of interference (the sun, other lidars, 
multipath) and signal attenuation (rain, fog, 
haze, dirty optics), as well as regulatory concerns 
(eye safety). The designer needs numerical 
targets for desired wavelength, pulse duration, 
and pulse power. This section will provide a 
brief overview of typical requirements for cost-
effective DToF lidar systems.
(1)

=== PAGE 3 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    3
Figure 3. Some typical laser diodes used in ToF lidar systems. All diodes are 
from ams OSRAM: (a) SPL PL90_3, single channel triple junction EEL, (b) SPL 
S1L90A_3 A01 single channel triple junction EEL, (c) SPL S4L90A_3 A01 quad 
channel triple junction EEL, and (d) EGA2000-940-W single channel triple 
junction VCSEL array with diffuser removed.
4.1  Diode lasers
DToF lidar most commonly uses near-infrared (NIR) semi-conductor 
laser diodes, either edge-emitting lasers (EELs) or vertical cavity 
surface emitting lasers (VCSELs). Some typical laser diodes are 
shown in Figure 3 [9], [10], [1 1], [12]. Electrically, the laser diode 
behaves as a very fast PN junction diode. When forward biased 
above the lasing threshold current, it emits laser radiation with the 
output optical power approximately proportional to the forward 
current. Thus, if we drive it with a pulse of current, we get a pulse 
of laser light [13]. The majority of these lasers have wavelengths in 
the range of 900 nm to 950 nm, with some choosing 1450 nm to 
1550 nm. Other light sources such as fiber lasers may also be used, 
but diode lasers have a very compelling combination of price, 
performance, size, reliability, and ease of use.
Diode laser technology has been advancing rapidly in the last 
decade. For high-power laser diodes, the most obvious advances 
have been multijunction and parallel lasers on a single die along 
with a move towards surface mount packages. These techniques 
allow an increase in the optical power of a given die. Each approach 
has advantages and drawbacks, and modern high power laser 
diodes often use both approaches on a single die. Table 1 shows a 
summary of parameters for a selection of commercially available 
laser diodes targeted at ToF lidar applications. This is not an 
exhaustive selection, and it is chosen based on the availability 
of manufacturers’ data rather than actual usage. There are many 
more lasers available, both packaged and unpackaged, and the 
number continues to grow.
For laser diodes targeted at pulsed operation, the actual laser die is quite small, especially for EELs. The high power dissipation during 
the pulse means that the average output power is usually limited to a few watts or less due to thermal management challenges.  
This means the operating duty cycle for these laser diodes is usually limited to duty cycles of 1% or even as low as 0.1%.
An unfortunate consequence of the optical heritage of laser diodes is that circuit simulation models or the electrical parameters 
needed to develop such models are often difficult or impossible to obtain from the manufacturer, and this presents a challenge for 
electrical design. It is hoped that the situation will improve. 
Part Number Manufacturer λ
[nm]
IFmax
(A)
VFmax
(V)
Popt,max
(W) Technology Die area 
[mm2] Package L 
(nH)
SPL PL90_3 OSRAM 905 30 9 75 EEL Unknown Through hole > 5
TPGAD1S09H Excelitas 905 30 12.5 75 EEL Unknown Surface mount 1.6
SPL S1L90A_3 A01 OSRAM 915 40 11 120 EEL 0.24 Surface mount < 0.5
SPL S4L90A_3 A01 OSRAM 915 160 11 480 EEL Unknown Surface mount < 0.5
EGA2000-940-W OSRAM 940 10 3.3 7. 5 VCSEL Unknown Surface mount < 0.5
TPG3AD1S09 Excelitas 905 40 11. 6 120 EEL Unknown Surface mount 1.6
RLD90QZW8 Rohm 905 38 13 120 EEL Unknown Through hole > 5
T PGAD1S11A - 4A Excelitas 905 120 12.5 300 EEL Unknown Surface mount < 1
PVGR4S12H Excelitas 1550 40 100 80 EEL Unknown Through hole 5.6
M53-100 Lumentum 905 98 16 400 VCSEL 1.08 Chip < 0.5
Table 1. A selection of lasers targeted at DToF pulsed lidar applications.
(a) (b)
(c) (d)

=== PAGE 4 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    4
4.2  Pulse requirements
The pulse width of the transmitted 
optical signal has a great influence on 
the distance resolution of a lidar system. 
Figure 4 helps show why this is the case. 
If we look at the top case, we send narrow 
pulses of light out from the lidar. Since 
the light pulse must travel to the target, 
be reflected, and travel back, for a target 
at distance d, the time td between pulse 
transmission and reception is 
td = 2d/c
where c is the speed of light in air, approx-
imately 30 cm/ns (about 1 foot/ns for the 
imperialists among us). By measuring the 
time td, we can compute the distance. 
Now suppose that we send longer duration 
pulses, as shown in the bottom case. 
We see that if the pulse length becomes 
long enough, the reflected pulses begin 
to overlap, and it becomes harder to 
distinguish between reflections that 
represent features in the environment.
For an idea of what pulse lengths are 
desirable in practice, consider an electrical 
current pulse width of 1 ns driving the 
laser diode, which corresponds to an 
optical pulse length of 30 cm. As features 
of the target approach 15 cm, the received 
pulses begin to overlap and become 
harder to distinguish. While various signal 
processing techniques can improve the 
resolution for a given pulse width, it is clear 
that a shorter pulse gives better inherent 
precision, and that pulses on the order of 
a few nanoseconds or less are desirable for 
human-scale resolution.
Pulse energy determines the range of 
the lidar. As demand for better resolution 
drives designs towards narrower pulses, 
the diode current must increase in order 
to maintain sufficient pulse energy. Typical 
pulse current can range from a few amps to 
hundreds of amps.
Figure 5 provides some typical numbers 
necessary to drive laser diodes in present-
day DToF lidar laser transmitters. They are 
grouped into long-range and short-range 
lidars. Note that longer pulse widths are 
more acceptable for longer range lidar 
as the distance measurement resolution 
needs are normally less for distant targets. 
Commercial lidar is a rapidly changing 
technology, hence both the numbers and 
definitions of quantities such as range are 
still in flux. Nevertheless, these numbers 
provide an understanding of the parameter 
space for a DToF laser driver design.
tp
tp
Lidar
Transmission
Re/f_lection
Transmission
Re/f_lection
Lidar
Short range
Target distance: <1 m to 50 m
Pulse width: 0.5 ns to 5 ns
Pulse peak current: 3 A to 30 A
Long range
Target distance: 50 m to 500 m
Pulse width: 2 ns to 20 ns
Pulse peak current: 30 A to 300 A
Figure 4. Effect of lidar pulse width on resolution. Top: narrow pulses allow reflections to be easily distinguished.  
Bottom: wider pulses can overlap, making them harder to distinguish and reducing distance resolution.
Figure 5. Typical laser driver specifications for DToF lidar systems
(2)

=== PAGE 5 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    5
5  Laser drivers
One can find a huge variety of different 
types of diode laser driver circuits and 
implementations. This is a result of the vast 
number of different uses of diode lasers in 
fields ranging from communication, medicine, 
law enforcement, material processing, and 
of course, lidar. The majority of these are 
functionally equivalent to the circuit shown 
in Figure 6. This is essentially a common 
source amplifier. Many laser drivers operate 
in the linear mode, e.g. the laser current i
DL 
is approximately proportional to the input 
v
command. Because this is basically a Class A 
amplifier, it has the associated low efficiency 
and hence is not suitable for high power 
operation due to the high power dissipation 
in Q
1. Hence, for high power, Q1 is operated 
as a switch. This greatly reduces the power 
dissipation, but the current i
DL is now 
controlled by the bus voltage V IN, the diode 
semiconductor forward voltage V DLF, and 
the power loop impedance Z PL. The latter 
includes the source impedance, R DS(on) of Q1, 
and any other parasitic impedance in the 
circuit. Since Q
1 is operated as a switch, it is a 
good assumption that any voltage drop due 
to R
DS(on)  is small. The impedance Z PL is thus 
the dominant impedance in the loop. Since it 
depends on the physical construction of all the 
components and associated interconnections, 
it is considered approximately constant and 
power is thus controlled by varying V
IN.
Figure 7 shows a very simple laser driver 
with all key components visible. There is a 
high frequency loop denoted as the power 
loop which consists of capacitor
 C 1, a stray 
inductance L1, a diode laser D 1, and a switch 
Q1. There is also a low frequency loop called 
the charging loop consisting of V IN, ZIN, and  
C1. Q1 is turned on and off by a gate driver 
GD1, which is in turn controlled by an input 
signal v command. In normal operation, Q1 is 
commanded to turn on and off periodically. 
The energy needed for transitions in the 
power loop containing the laser is supplied 
from
 C 1, and this energy is replenished via 
the charging loop. Performance is limited 
by stray inductance and the speed of the 
semiconductor power switch.
Figure 6. Simple laser driver
VIN
v1
ZPL
Q1
vGS
+
+
+
_
_
_vDSvCommand
VDLF
DL
iDL
Figure 8. Key waveforms for capacitive discharge resonant driver of Figure 7
vD
vGS
vcommand
t
t
trecharge
ton
v1
tw
IDLM
0.5 IDLM
2 VDFL –VIN
VIN
iDL
twb
t0 t2 t3t1
If we assume for the moment that the switch 
is ideal, the dominant parasitic component 
is inductance. Those experienced in power 
electronics will recognize that this inductance 
will limit the current risetime, and if the 
switch is turned off, interrupting a non-zero 
inductor current is likely cause ringing and its 
associated problems of voltage stress and EMI 
generation. If the inductor current is relatively 
small and the turn-off transition time of Q
1 
is relatively slow, the ringing and associated 
problems are also correspondingly small and 
thus are tolerable. However, lidar demands 
extreme currents and fast transitions, which 
can lead to extreme ringing, overvoltage and 
EMI. The resonant pulse driver described in 
the next section is a practical solution to these 
problems.
5.1  Resonant capacitive 
discharge laser driver design
There are many kinds of laser driver 
topologies, but for high power, short 
pulses, only the resonant design is 
practical due to the fact parasitic 
inductance dominates the behavior. 
Figure 7 shows the simplified schematic 
of a resonant capacitive discharge laser 
driver, and Figure 8 shows the main 
waveforms.
Figure 7 . Simple laser driver with parasitic 
inductance and non-zero power supply 
impedance
VIN
v1
L1
R1
Gate drive
C1
Q1GD1
vGS
+
+
_
_
VDLF
DL
iDL
+
_vDS

=== PAGE 6 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    6
Assuming that Q1 is an ideal switch, R1 is large, 
and DL is an ideal diode with a fixed forward 
voltage drop VDLF , the driver works as follows: 
Q1 starts in the off-state, so iDL = 0. The capacitor 
voltage v1 = VIN, has been fully charged through 
R1 . At t = t 0, vcommand triggers the gate drive, 
turning Q1 fully on at t = t 1. This discharges C1 
through the laser D L and inductor L 1. C1 and 
L1 form a resonant network, hence iDL and vC1 
ring sinusoidally. The effective initial capacitor 
voltage driving the resonance is VC1,0 = VIN–VDLF 
due to the laser diode forward drop. At t = t2, iDL 
returns to zero and vC1 = 2 VDLF–VIN. At this point 
DL prevents the current from reversing and C1 
recharges via R1. Switch Q1 is turned off before 
v1 crosses zero at t = t3. 
The capacitor charging time constant τchrg and 
the resonant period tres are
τchrg = R1C1
tres = 2π√(L1C1) = 2twb
Typically, τchrg >> t res , so R 1 has little effect 
on the L 1–C1 resonance. The resonant 
characteristic impedance R0 and the full width 
half maximum (FWHM) pulse width tw are
This laser driver topology has the following 
benefits
● The topology utilizes stray inductance
● The pulse shape is stable
● Pulse energy is set via the value of VIN
● The switch is ground-referenced for  
 s imple drive
● Only gate turn-on needs precise control 
 ( single edge control)
● Laser current pulse width can be shorter 
 t han gate drive minimum pulse width
(5)
(4)
(3)
(6)
5.2  Effect of stray inductance
The inductance has a large effect on the de -
sign, which we can understand by calculating 
the peak laser diode current I DLpk using the 
following equation:
 
From (4), (5), (6), and (7), we solve for VIN to find
 
Equation 8 allows calculation of the effect of 
pulse width t
w and peak current I DLpk on the 
required voltage V IN. Figure 9 illustrates this 
more clearly. A laser diode voltage drop of 
V
DLF = 12 V is assumed, typical of a three or 
4 junction laser at operating current. Figure 
9a shows the calculated voltage V
IN from 
(7) versus L1 for a fixed 50 A pulse at several 
typical values of pulse width, and Figure 9b 
shows the same for a fixed 2 ns pulse width 
at various typical values of peak current. It is 
clearly seen that the required V
IN increases 
approximately linearly with L1 for a given laser 
and pulse shape.
5.3  Driver switch properties
The analysis above assumes an ideal switch, but 
practical semiconductor switches have non-
zero switching times and saturation current 
limits. In addition, switches and their packages 
can have significant inductance which not only 
increases the required voltage for a given pulse 
shape, but also slows switch turn-on.
In the last decade, new power FETs based on 
GaN have become commercially available. GaN 
FETs have several overwhelming advantages 
for lidar applications compared to silicon 
MOSFETS. First, they have up to 10x lower input 
capacitance C
ISS than MOSFETs of comparable 
current rating , enabling the GaN FETs to 
turn on much faster. Second, GaN FETs are a 
lateral device, which allows the use of a wafer 
level chip scale package (WLCSP). The WLCSP 
provides extremely low inductance, excellent 
thermal performance, high reliability, and 
minimal cost. Finally, GaN FET die are much 
smaller than packaged silicon power MOSFETs 
of comparable voltage and current rating, 
further reducing inductance, and allowing 
tight spacing of adjacent lasers for applications 
such as multi-channel lidar.
(7)
(8)
IDLpk = VIN –VDLF
R0
VIN = I DLpk + VDLF
2πL1
3tw
Figure 9. Bus voltage VIN versus inductance L1. (a) shows effect of pulse width for a specific peak pulse 
current of 50 A, and (b) shows the effect of current for a specific pulse width of 2 ns FWHM.
Inductance L1 (nH)
1 ns
25 A
200 A 100 A 50 A
2 ns
4 ns 8 ns
Required input voltage VIN (V)Required input voltage VIN (V)
10 2 3 4 5
Inductance L1 (nH)
10 2 3 4 5
200
150
100
50
0
200
150
100
50
0
(a)
(b)
50 A Pulse
2 ns Pulse
0 = 1
1
 
=
−11
2 = 3

=== PAGE 7 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    7
At the beginning of the twenty-first century, 
the switch technology of choice was a silicon 
power MOSFET. Packaging and PCB tech-
nology had advanced to where inductance 
could be controlled sufficiently that values of  
< 10 nH became feasible. Combined with 
state-of-the-art silicon MOSFETs, pulse widths 
of tens of nanoseconds and tens of amps 
became commercially viable. However, as 
lidar system designers strive to get more 
performance, silicon power MOSFETs have 
become the major limiting factor for two 
reasons. The first is the large gate charge, 
which greatly slows the turn-on of the MOSFET. 
Second, large silicon MOSFETs are vertical 
devices with connections on both sides of 
the die. This leads to the use of an external 
package, which adds substantial inductance 
in both the power loop and the gate drive 
loop . The former results in a higher voltage 
requirement and an even larger die, and the 
latter further slows the device turn on. As we 
have seen, this at least a factor of ten worse 
than the needs of modern lidar systems. Even 
though ToF lidar had existed for decades, it 
was relegated to niche applications.
This all changed with the advent of cost-
effective gallium nitride (GaN) power FETs.  
These became commercially available around 
2010, with significantly lower inductance and 
switching figures of merit (FOMs) up to 10x 
better than comparable silicon MOSFETs.  
Figure 10 shows three 80 V AEC-Q101 auto -
motive qualified eGaN® FETs, the EPC2252, 
EPC2204A, and the EPC2218A, with pulse cur-
rent ratings 75 A, 125 A, and 231 A, respectively 
[14], [15], [16].
Table 2 shows a comparison of a GaN FET 
[14] and a state-of-the-art silicon MOSFET 
[17]. They are selected to have comparable 
voltage ratings and pulse current ratings and 
to have automotive qualification, which are 
key specifications for lidar. It is clear that GaN 
has large performance benefits over silicon 
Figure 10. EPC2252 (a), EPC2204A (b), and EPC2218A (c) 80 V eGaN FETs, to scale [12].  
Each of these FETs uses a chip-scale package for extremely low inductance and 
are automotive qualified according to the AEC-Q101 standard.
Parameter EPC2252 IAUZ40N08S5N100 Benefit of 
GaN over Si 
Effect on 
optical pulseTechnology GaN transistor Si MOSFET
Voltage rating VDS,max [V] 80 80 1 Speed, Power
Gate voltage VGS [V] 5 6* 1.2 Speed
Max pulse current Ipulse,max  [A] 100 (min) 90 (typ) 1.1 Power
Gate FOM RG • QGtot [Ω • nC] 2.1 15 7.1 Speed
Gate inductance LG [nH] <0.2 2.0 >10 Speed, Power
Source inductance LS [nH] <0.05 0.25 >5 Speed, Power
Drain inductance LD [nH] <0.1 0.1 >1 Speed, Power
Package footprint [mm x mm] LGA 1.5 x 1.5 DFN 3.3x3.3 6.2 Speed, Power
Table 2. Comparison of GaN FET and silicon MOSFET parameters for devices with 
comparable pulse current and voltage ratings at 25°C.
*Typical ultrafast gate drives for lidar have 6 V absolute maximum voltage rating.
5.4  Basic design process
Now we can put the above information 
together in order to design a resonant lidar 
driver. We start with some specifications on the 
laser pulse, which will generally result from the 
system design. These requirements are:
• P ulse peak amplitude I DLpk
• F ull width half maximum (FWHM)  
 pulse width tw
• P ulse repetition frequency PRF
• Laser diode v oltage drop VDLF
Once the basic pulse requirements have been 
chosen, the next factor needed to complete 
the design is the power loop inductance 
L
1. The determination of L 1 is discussed in 
Section 5.5, but for now, assume we can 
obtain a value.
The required bus voltage V
IN is determined 
from (8), which together with I DLpk is used to 
select the appropriate part number for FET Q1.
To determine the value of resonant capacitor 
C1, we use (5) and (7) to get
The value of recharge resistor R1 is determined 
from (3), so that
Since τchrg ≫ t res , we simply need to pick 
a large enough value of τchrg . Because of 
thermal limitations forcing the pulse duty 
cycle to be typically less than 1% or so, the 
value of R1 does not usually need precise 
determination. This is discussed further in 
Section 6.4 for those needing to operate at 
higher duty cycle values.
Together, (8), (9) and (10) determine the 
remaining values to complete the design.
(9)
(10)
C1 = L1
IDLpk 2
VIN –VDLF
R1 = 
τchrg
C1
EPC2252
1.5 x 1.5 mm
Pulsed ID @125°C = 80 A
EPC2204A
2.5 x 1.5 mm
Pulsed ID @125°C = 134 A
EPC2218A
3.5 x 1.95 mm
Pulsed ID @125°C = 247 A
(a) (b) (c)
across the board, and the Gate FOM alone 
is enough to make the MOSFET unsuitable 
for high performance DToF lidar. The greatly 
improved performance of eGaN FETs over the 
older silicon MOSFET technology translates 
to much faster switching for a given peak 
current capability.

=== PAGE 8 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    8
5.5  Determination of power loop 
inductance
We have seen that the required input voltage 
increases nearly linearly with the laser 
inductance, and the input voltage determines 
the rating of the FET and the capacitors. 
Furthermore, the laser driver bus voltage must 
come from somewhere, most likely another 
boost converter. The smaller the value of L
1, the 
simpler and lower cost the rest of the design 
will be. The core principles of minimizing PCB 
inductance are explained in depth in [18], 
which covers a variety of useful techniques for 
reducing power loop inductance. The referred 
article shows that with the eGaN FET’s chip-
scale package, the power loop inductance 
contribution of the FET, PCB, bus capacitance, 
and current sensing shunt (if desired) can be 
kept well below 1 nH and can approach values 
below 500 pH.
Now, we turn to other sources of inductance, 
and the main one is the laser. Figure 1 1 shows 
typical power loop inductance with a short 
circuit load and both surface mount and 
through-hole lasers, as determined by the 
author’s experience. These are superimposed 
on the graph of Figure 9a to provide an idea 
of what performance is attainable. A through-
hole laser can be expected to lead to a total 
inductance L
1 of about 5 nH in the absolute best 
case, but typically it is in the range of 6–20 nH 
if care is taken to minimize the package lead 
lengths. Such a high value means that a 50 A 
pulse of approximately 10 ns is the best that can 
Figure 1 1. Typical inductance ranges for a well designed laser driver for short circuit load (no laser), surface mount lasers, and through-hole lasers
Table 3. EPC Automotive DToF demo boards
be achieved in practice. While a higher voltage 
part could be used for Q
1, such parts are larger, 
have greater package inductance, and require 
greater PCB clearance both between traces on 
a PCB layer and between layers. All of these 
factors increase the total inductance further, 
which results in little improvement being 
obtained in practice beyond 200 V. Surface 
mount lasers will result in an inductance L
1 
closer to 0.6 nH to 2 nH. In this case, we see 
that pulses of 2-3 ns are readily achieved with 
switches rated from 80 V to 100 V.
Note that most of the laser inductance comes 
from the laser package, including wire bonds. 
Laser and lidar manufacturers have become 
aware that the laser package inductance 
dominate performance, so work is underway 
to develop advanced packaging or methods 
of chip scale packaging for laser diodes. This 
is a greater challenge for high power laser 
diodes because they have all the constraints 
of power semiconductors combined with the 
additional challenge of meeting optical system 
requirements. 
Parameter Description EPC9179 EPC9180 EPC9181 Units
Q1 FET part number EPC2252 EPC2218A EPC2204A n/a
CRES
(C2-C6)
Effective total resonant 
capacitance 1.10 10.8 3.4 nF
Ipeak
Nominal peak current 
@125°C for ideal diode load 80 247 134 A
TPW Nominal pulse width 2-3 5-6 3-4 ns
Inductance L1 (nH)
1 ns
2 ns
4 ns 8 ns
Required input voltage VIN (V)
10 2 3 4 5 6
200
150
100
50
0
50 A Pulse
Including 
surface 
mount laser
Including 
through-hole 
laser
Copper
foil short
Unfortunately, the value for  L1 is difficult to 
know exactly at the beginning of the design. 
This means that it is likely that some iteration 
will be necessary. For an initial design, 
consider giving yourself some additional 
voltage margin, which will allow one to 
overcome a certain amount of unanticipated 
inductance.
6  Hardware Driver Design
This section will cover a real laser driver 
design in some detail by exploring 
the EPC9179 laser driver development 
board. The EPC9179 uses an EPC2252, an 
automotive qualified 80 V eGaN FET with a 
pulse current rating of 80 A @ 125°C. It is part 
of a set of development boards (EPC9179, 
EPC9180, EPC9181) that cover various peak 
current levels, and these are summarized 
in Table 3 [7], [19], [20]. All three of these 
demonstration boards are identical except 
for the FETs, the resonant capacitors, and the 
current measurement shunts. All discussion 
about the operation and physical design is 
equally applicable to the three boards.

=== PAGE 9 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    9
6.1  Operation
Figure 12 shows the EPC9179 block diagram reproduced from 
the EPC9179 Quick Start Guide  (QSG) [7]. The development 
board supports different types of logic level inputs and include 
a narrow pulse generator that can produce a fast, short pulse 
from a longer input pulse (output range approximately 1–50 ns). 
However, we are only concerned with the main laser driver and 
test points associated with key waveforms Those interested in 
greater details can fine this information in both the QSG and the 
EPC9179 web page [19]. 
6.2  Construction
The importance of the physical design and construction of a 
high speed, high current laser driver cannot be overstated. This 
aspect of design determines the minimum possible inductance. 
With the use of GaN power switch technology, the switch is no 
longer the limit and parasitic inductance is the key determining 
factor of performance. In this section we will cover the key 
aspects of the physical design, namely the PCB layout.
When considering PCB technology, it is highly desirable to use 
standard technologies to minimize cost. The designs discussed 
here use only through-hole vias and a four-layer design. This is 
enough to illustrate the methods. Some additional performance 
can be obtained by using blind-, buried-, or micro-vias, but this 
is not required for basic pulse performance shown here. This is 
especially true for designs using packaged lasers or lasers with 
bond wires. Note that use of HDI PCB processes may have other 
benefits, such as more compact layout and improved thermal 
performance.
6.2.1 Common source inductance versus 
power loop inductance
In Figure 7 , we added L 1 to model all parasitic inductance in 
the power loop. This is generally a good approximation for 
calculating the value of the resonant capacitor, but it obscures 
one important consideration of high speed, high current 
switching, namely common source inductance (L
CS) [3]. Figure 
13 shows L CS as an explicit inductor. The total power loop 
inductance L1 is the same, so now we also define L1 to represent 
the part explicitly in series with the drain. LCS represent the part 
of the power loop inductance that is in common with the gate 
loop, hence the term “common.”
Why go through the trouble? Let’s consider some typical 
numbers. Suppose L
1 = 1 nH, which would be a well-designed 
layout with a well-packaged SMT laser diode (see Figure 1 1). 
Further suppose that the value of L
CS = 50 pH. A common rule of 
thumb is that a bond wire has approximately 1 nH/mm length, 
so this would be the inductance of a 50 μm bond wire. Finally, 
the slope of the laser current d
ILD/dt can approach 100 A/ns.  
In this case, the voltage vLCS across LCS is
Figure 13. Laser driver showing common source inductance LCS
Figure 12. Block diagram of EPC9179, EPC9180, and EPC9181 laser drivers
(11)
Given that the recommended drive voltage of an eGaN FET is 5 V, and the 
gate threshold around 2 V, it is clear that 50 pH is unacceptably high. Given 
that 50 pH can be generated by a 50 um bond wire, we can see how a silicon 
MOSFET with source bond wires is completely unable to switch fast enough 
even with an ideal gate drive. It might seem impossible to get a more usable 
number, say on the order of 10 pH, until we realize that L
CS models the 
coupling of the power loop and gate loop. With this understanding of the 
role of L
CS, we can take a closer look at layout.
6.2.2  Layout
The discussion of layout below requires that the reader is familiar with two key 
concepts. First, they should be familiar with the principles for minimizing power 
loop inductance. If they are unfamiliar with the topic or a little rusty, it’s worth 
VIN
vcommand
v1
Ldrain
LCS
CBUS
ZIN
Common
source
inductance
Q1
vGS
+
+
_
_
DL
iLaser
vdrain
vLCS
RCHRG
RSHUNT
VBUS
VOUT (J3)
VGS
(J6)
VGDIN
(J5)
Laser diode or
other load
LSTRAY
Input select
(J10)
CRES
Cap (J1)
Single-ended (SE)
Input (J9)
Diﬀerential (DIFF)
Input (J11)
Shunt (J2)
V3V3
V3V3
V5V0
5 V Supply 3.3 V SupplyV5V0
PW ADJ (P1)
(J4)
DIS
ENB
+
_
D1
D1, D2, D3
optional
= = (50 pH) 100 A
ns = 5 V

=== PAGE 10 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    10
reviewing these principles, which can be found here [18]. Second, one must 
recall that currents will primarily flow in regions of lowest impedance. For 
high frequency currents or currents that change rapidly, this means they 
will follow the paths of lowest inductance. Since we are only considering 
such currents, it is a good assumption that the currents will always travel in 
the smallest area loop since this has the lowest inductance. Keeping these 
principles in mind, we now take a look at a high-performance laser driver 
layout [21].
Figure 14 shows a simplified view of a high-performance laser driver 
power loop layout, looking at the top of the PCB. First note that the gate 
drive and power loops are on the left and right sides respectively of the 
eGaN FET Q
1. Second, note that most of the top layer is a ground plane. 
Figure 15 shows the flow of current when turning on Q1. First, referring to 
Figure 15a, the small arrows on the left shows how the current flows when 
the gate driver turns the FET on. At this time, the gate driver discharges the 
gate drive bypass capacitor into the gate of Q
1, as shown by the small red 
arrow. This same current must flow out of the source back into the other 
terminal of the bypass capacitor. Since the speed is high, this gate turn-on 
current will flow in the smallest, lowest inductance path as shown. Once 
Q
1 is turned on, the power loop current flows. The large red arrows on 
the right indicate the current discharging from the resonant capacitor C1. 
This flows across the top layer into the laser or 
other load, and then out of the load into the 
through vias down to the 2
nd layer shown in 
Figure 15b. On the second layer, the power 
loop current flows left and then up through 
the vias to the drain of Q
1.
This layout is different from the more usual 
approach of keeping the second layer an 
uninterrupted ground or return plane, and 
there are good reasons behind this. First, 
each of the gate and power loops have 
the source current flowing in opposite 
directions and away from each other, which 
reduces any common conductive path and 
also reduces mutual inductance simply due 
to the increasing physical distance of the 
two paths. This is made possible due to the 
interdigitated drain and source terminals 
as shown in Figure 10. Second, it keeps the 
power loop source current from flowing through vias. Since vias are a major 
source of parasitic inductance, this minimizes the source inductance seen by 
the power loop. The total power loop path would be the same if the current 
flow were reversed, so the total power loop inductance is unchanged; this 
layout means that we move some of the power loop inductance from the 
source to the drain, where it can do little harm.
The PCB layout concepts above allow one to obtain extremely good pulse 
performance using standard PCB technology. However, pulse performance 
is only one of several requirements. Thermal performance is often a limiting 
factor, and in the case of lidar, the laser is part of an optical systems that has 
its own set of requirements. This layout does have some accommodation for 
these factors as well. In this layout, the via array connecting the load on the 
top side to the drain node on the second layer are through vias terminating 
on a copper land on the bottom of the PCB. This provides a path for heat 
flow from the load to a heat sink. Since this path is electrically connected to 
Figure 15. Physical location of power loop currents when FET is turned on
Figure 14. Typical power loop component layout.
Gate drive bypass
capacitor Q1 (eGaN FET)
C1 (resonant
capacitor)
DL (laser or load)
Ground
Gate drive
Drain node
(1
ST layer)
v1 (charging node)
Gate loop 
source current
Gate loop
gate current
Drain current
(through vias from 
2nd to 1st layer)
Drain current
(on 2
ND to 1ST layer)
Laser current
Power loop 
source current
Drain current
(through vias from
1
ST to 2ND layer)
Drain node
(2
ND layer)
(a) (b)
the switch node, the usual methods for heat sinking apply [1]. 
For optical purposes, the layout shown accommodates EELs by 
allowing the EEL to be mounted at the edge of the PCB so that 
the optical output is free and clear of the PCB. The same layout 
principles are still applicable to VCSELs, but since the latter’s 
optical emission is perpendicular to the PCB plane, the edge 
mounting is no longer necessary.
Finally, due to the extreme values of dv/dt and di/dt present 
in the power loop, it is highly recommended to have an ad -
ditional ground plane underneath the entire power loop 
structure, and to use via shielding around the entire power 
loop connecting this plane to the top ground. Clearly there 
must be gaps in the via shielding to allow connections to the 
power loop structure, but these should be kept to a minimum. 
The layout files for the EPC9179/80/81 show examples of a 
practical implementation.

=== PAGE 11 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    11
Figure 16. EPC9179 resonant pulse driver with closeup of power loop that highlights the key 
components of the resonant network. Inductance L1 is not shown because it is strictly due to 
stray inductance of the power loop components and the PCB.
R1
Rshunt C1Gate drive EPC2252 FET
Laser
mounting
7  Experimental Results 
This section shows experimental results to 
illustrate the excellent performance that 
can be obtained by using eGaN FETs and 
following the design and construction 
information presented in Section 6. 
7.1  Overview of the EPC resonant 
driver development boards
Figure 16 shows a photograph of the EPC9179 
development board, and the expanded view 
shows the key components of the power 
loop. Inductance L
1 is not shown because it is 
strictly due to stray inductance of the power 
loop components and the PCB, and there is 
no explicit inductor added in this design. The 
first three designs (EPC9179, EPC9180, and 
EPC9181) have nearly identical layouts, and 
so the inductance of each is similar. The basic 
design approach is to get the shortest pulse 
that will be close to the rated current of the 
device at an operating temperature of 125°C. 
This is done because in a realistic design, the 
laser is the main source of heat. Since the laser 
is mounted in close proximity to the FET, the 
power dissipation in the laser will result in 
raising the temperature of the FET. Because 
the inductance in each case is similar and 
the voltage ratings are identical, increasing 
peak current requires increasing the value of 
the resonant capacitor. This will also cause an 
increase in pulse width.
The last design (EPC9150) is targeted at high 
current applications (~200 A) similar to the 
EPC9180, but where a shorter pulse is desired 
[22], [23]. Since the layouts have already been 
optimized for low inductance, and the target 
currents are similar, Equation (7) shows the 
only way to decrease the pulse width is to 
increase the voltage, hence the use of an 
EPC2034C 200 V FET [24]. It should be noted 
that the higher voltage design requires other 
changes, like higher voltage capacitors and 
increased PCB conductor clearances and 
interlayer insulation. The two latter factors 
both act to increase inductances, so one 
cannot increase voltage indefinitely.
Figure 17 shows the stackups for the two 
sets of boards, with the dielectric spacing 
highlighted between the 1st (“Top Layer”) and 
the 2nd (“MidLayer1”) layers. The lower voltage 
boards are rated at 80 V due to the FETs, but 
are suitable for 100 V, and use a spacing of 
75 μm (3 mils). The higher voltage board is 
rated at 200 V and uses a spacing of 127 μm 
(5 mils). These spacings are conservative, and 
inductance can be reduced by decreasing this 
spacing. However, since the laser inductance 
normally dominates the designs in this 
section, the performance gain may be small. 
If better laser packages are available, reducing 
this thickness may help improve performance.
Also, the material used is Isola FR408HR [25]. 
This is a relatively low-cost material that has 
better RF properties than standard FR4. This 
is not strictly necessary from a pulse current 
performance standpoint, and it was chosen 
primarily to make the measurement points on 
the development boards more consistent.
(a)
EPC9179
EPC9180
EPC9181
80 V
(b)
EPC9150
200 V
Figure 17 . PCB stackups used for EPC’s development boards. EPC9179, EPC9180, EPC9181
80 V boards (a) and EPC9150 200 V board (b). The thickness of highlighted dielectric layer should be 
minimized to reduce power loop inductance.

=== PAGE 12 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    12
7.2  Experimental waveforms
Selected experimental results are shown for each of the designs in the following subsections. 
7.2.1 EPC9179 with EPC2252 Automotive 80 V, 80 A eGaN FET
7.2.2  EPC9180 with EPC2018A Automotive 80 V, 247 A eGaN FET
7.2.3  EPC9181 with EPC2204A Automotive 80 V, 134 A eGaN FET
Figure 18. Waveforms for the EPC9179 demo board using an ams OSRAM SPL S1L90A_3 A01 single 
channel triple junction laser diode mounted with the EPC9989 interposer. vBUS = 70 V.
Figure 19. Waveforms for the EPC9180 demo board using an ams OSRAM SPL S4L90A_3 A01 four channel triple 
laser diode mounted with the EPC9989 interposer. All channels are connected in parallel. vBUS = 70 V.
Figure 20. Waveforms for the EPC9181 demo board using an ams OSRAM SPL S4L90A_3 A01 four channel triple 
laser diode mounted with the EPC9989 interposer. All channels are connected in parallel. vBUS = 70 V.
SHUNT (iLASER),
19.4 A/div
VGS, 1 V/divVCAP , 20 V/div
Pulse width: 1.96 ns
Peak current: 63.1A 2 ns/div
VOUT (vDS), 
10 V/div
SHUNT (iLASER),
50 A/div
VGS, 1 V/divVCAP , 20 V/div
VOUT (vDS), 
10 V/div
Pulse width: 5.59 ns
Peak current: 223 A 2 ns/div
VGS, 1 V/divVCAP , 20 V/div
VOUT (vDS), 
10 V/div
Pulse width: 3.16 ns
Peak current: 135 A 2 ns/div
SHUNT (iLASER),
50 A/div

=== PAGE 13 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    13
7.2.3  EPC9150 with EPC2034C 200 V, 214 A eGaN FET
Figure 21. Waveforms for the EPC9150 demo board using an ams OSRAM SPL S4L90A_3 A01 four channel triple laser 
diode mounted with the EPC9989 interposer. All channels are connected in parallel. VBUS = 150 V.
Table 4. Summary of experimental results for EPC development boards.
7.3  Summary of Results
Table 4 summarizes the results for the waveforms given above.
8  Additional features of the EPC laser driver development boards
Board FET Recommended 
Max Bus Voltage Laser Peak current Pulse width Peak dId/dt Peak dVds/dt
EPC9179 EPC2252 70 S1L90A_3 A01 64 2.0 79 132
EPC9180 EPC2218A 70 S4L90A_3 A01 223 5.6 112 60
EPC9181 EPC2204A 70 S4L90A_3 A01 135 3.2 Not measured Not measured
EPC9150 EPC2034C 160 S4L90A_3 A01 221 2.9 Not measured Not measured
The EPC9179/80/81 series of DToF 
development boards have a great deal 
of flexibility and can be used as a base 
from which to try out new ideas or gain 
deeper understanding of real component 
behavior for fast, high current pulses. This 
section provides some further detail on 
these designs along with suggestions 
on different directions to pursue further. 
The block diagram of Figure 12 applies 
to the EPC9179/80/81 series and provides 
a useful reference for this section. While 
the EPC9150 is an older design, it has 
most of the features in the newer series, 
hence most of the discussion in this 
section is still applicable. If using the 
EPC9150, please be aware that there 
are a few differences from the details 
presented here. The web pages for all 
the designs include full schematics, PCB 
layout files, bills of materials (BOMs), and 
Quick Start Guides (QSGs) as well as links 
to related applications notes. These are 
summarized in the Appendix, and it is 
recommended to review this material if 
using the development boards.
8.1 Inputs and outputs
The high speeds involved in laser pulse drivers 
dictate the use of RF techniques, in particular 
the use of controlled impedances and the use 
of a 50 Ω standard impedance for cables and 
measurements. If you are not sure what this 
means, there are some good references to 
get started, as a full explanation is beyond the 
scope of this article. An excellent reference for 
those new to the topic is [26].
The input is terminated with a 50 Ω resis -
tance. When connected to a signal source 
with a 50 Ω cable, there will be a minimum 
of ringing and reflection from the input. 
If using a pulse generator with a 50 Ω output, 
remember to account for the voltage divider 
formed by the signal generator output imped-
ance and the input impedance of the board. If 
it is desired to drive the board with a logic gate 
directly, please keep in mind that the output 
impedance of some logic gates can be as high 
as a few hundred ohms, meaning that they will 
not drive the input to high enough voltage.  
In such case, the input terminating resistors 
can be removed, but the connection to the 
logic gate must be made in a manner to mini-
mize any ringing or pulse reflections. If this 
sounds unfamiliar, please review the reference 
above. There are two possible inputs: a single-
ended logic input and an LVDS input [27]. The 
single-ended input has a logic level translator 
that is set to be compatible with 2.5 V CMOS 
Optical Output
VGS, 
1 V/div
VOUT (VDS), 
20 V/div
Pulse width: 2.9 ns
Peak current: 221 A
2 ns/div
SHUNT (ILASER),
50 A/div

=== PAGE 14 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    14
logic levels; this can be changed according 
to instructions in the QSG. Similarly, the QSG 
gives instructions on using the LVDS input.
All the outputs are designed to operate 
properly into a 50 Ω load. This is best ac -
complished with the use of a 50 Ω coaxial 
cable connecting to an oscilloscope with a 
50 Ω internal input. Please note that the use 
of external 50 Ω terminators at the scope 
input is not recommended due to the mea-
surement bandwidth limitation resulting 
from the high input capacitance of typical 1 
megohm scope inputs. This capacitance will 
usually limit the measurement bandwidth 
to < 200 MHz, giving a minimum measure -
ment rise time on the order of 2 ns. This too 
slow for anything beyond verification of  
basic functionality.
8.2  Voltage sensing with 
transmission line probes
All sense measurement outputs, except for 
the shunt measurement, use the transmission 
line voltage probe principle to obtain 
waveform fidelity at sub-ns time scales. Such 
probes typically have a relatively low probing 
impedance, on the order of 500 to 5k, but 
the impedance is nearly purely resistive and 
the bandwidth can be very high, i.e. multiple 
GHz. These probes are built into the PCB to 
allow near ideal connection to the node of 
interest, thus improving waveform fidelity 
and repeatability. The probe networks and 
transmission lines are on the bottom of 
the PCB to minimize interference from the 
extreme signals in the power loop. They 
also won’t slip off the measurement points, 
which is an important consideration when 
measuring the high voltages in the circuit! The 
basic principles of such probes are discussed 
in are beyond the scope of this article, but 
further information can be found in [28].
In order to get useful measurements with the 
built-in probes, one has to take into account 
the following three properties. First, they 
must be connected to an oscilloscope with 
the scope input set to 50 Ω. The use of a  
1 MΩ input with a 50 Ω terminator will severely 
limit the bandwidth for almost all scopes and 
is not recommended. Second, each built-in 
probe has its own attenuation factor that 
must be considered. These attenuation 
factors are given for each board type in its 
corresponding QSG. Third, the low impedance 
of the probe means that for points with a large 
average DC voltage, e.g. drain voltage and 
resonant capacitor voltage, substantial power 
dissipation can occur in the probe input 
resistor. Unfortunately, this resistor must be 
physically small in order to minimize parasitics, 
so it will have a very short lifetime due to the 
resultant heating. To prevent this dissipation, 
the test points for high voltage measurements 
include a DC blocking capacitor. This forms 
a high pass filter that has little effect for the 
high-speed waveforms of interest. However, if 
long pulse widths are used, these test points 
may yield erroneous results, and an external 
probe should be used. Also, charging and 
discharging the blocking capacitors will result 
in extra power dissipation. Finally, the high 
voltage probes with the blocking capacitors 
also have a 50 Ω termination on the PCB. This 
termination prevents leakage currents from 
charging a connected coaxial cable up to the 
bus voltage. This is important because if a 
charged cable is inadvertently connected to 
the 50 Ω input of a high speed oscilloscope, it 
can result in an uncomfortable conversation 
about an expensive oscilloscope repair.
The built-in transmission line probes have 
been verified to produce near-identical results 
to a Tektronix P6158 3 GHz transmission line 
probe [29], so their estimated bandwidth is at 
least 3 GHz.
8.3  Current sensing
Ahh, current sensing… the bane of power 
electronics!
There are both pros and cons to current 
sensing in pulse laser drivers. The pros 
include verification of operation, timing 
determination of the laser pulse, control of 
optical power for maximizing range while 
meeting eye safety, and troubleshooting. 
However, current sensing has a long list of 
cons, including added inductance, increased 
power dissipation, poor waveform accuracy, 
cost, reduced drive voltage to overcome 
inductance, and difficulty of implementation.
Current measurement capability is included in 
EPC’s resonant current pulse drivers in the form 
of a frequency compensated resistive current 
shunt. This shunt is in series with the low-
potential terminal of the resonant capacitor, 
as shown in Figure 22. This location allows  
the use of a ground-referenced shunt that 
does not introduce impedance into the source 
path. As discussed in Section 6.2.1, such source 
path impedance can be hugely detrimental to 
performance. Since the charging resistor R
1 is 
much larger than all other circuit impedances, 
the capacitor current is nearly equal to the 
laser or load current.
The need to minimize power loop inductance 
and the high bandwidth required to measure 
pulses of a few nanoseconds width means 
careful attention must be paid to the 
implementation of the shunt. A typical shunt 
has parasitic inductance, as shown in Figure 
23. There are two parts to this inductance, 
L
ESL and L ext. L ESL is the part of the shunt 
inductance that contributes to the voltage 
drop vsense that is used to determine the 
shunt current, and Lext is an additional 
inductance to account for the extra distance 
taken on the PCB as a result of the physical 
spacing of component pads inter-component 
spacing. Both inductances should be 
minimized, but they cannot be eliminated.  
The sum of L
ext and LESL adds to the power loop, 
and this must be minimized for maximum 
performance of the driver. However, its 
effects on the power loop are straightforward 
as seen 
in Section 5. L ESL contributes to 
the frequency response of the shunt, and 
its effect is to distort the measurement by 
adding a zero to the frequency response. 
Finally, the impedance Z
sense of the voltage 
sensing network provides a path for some of 
the test current, and this can also contribute 
to a measurement error.
Figure 22. Circuit location of current 
measurement shunt in resonant pulse 
development boards.
VIN
v1
L1
R1
Gate drive
C1
Rshunt
Q1GD1
vGS
+
+
_
_
VDLF
DL
iDL
+
_vDS
Ground referenced
current sense

=== PAGE 15 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    15
drop due to the high peak current and to mini-
mize the loading effects due to Zsense. Unfor-
tunately, even after the aforementioned steps 
taken to reduce inductance, enough residual 
inductance can remain to affect the measure-
ment. The problem is the zero introduced by 
L
ESL, whose location is given by
An estimate of the effect can be made by con-
sidering the EPC9179. Assuming a rectangular 
pulse with edge transition times t
t = 1 ns gives 
a 3 dB bandwidth of the pulse of
The partial inductance of the shunt was 
estimated to be approximately LESL = 40 pH 
using the results of [21]. From Eqs. 12-13, the 
inductive reactance for 
LESL is 
The resistive value of the shunt should be at 
least 10x the inductive reactance, which would 
imply R
shunt ≥ 0.88 Ω. This would result in a 
voltage drop of 57 V at the peak current of 65 A, 
which is > 70% of the transistor voltage rating. 
This would ruin the performance of the design.
The solution to this is to compensate the ESL 
zero with a pole, which can then allow the use 
The shunt resistor is comprised of five parallel 
0402 resistors integrated as part of the same 
layout as the rest of the power loop in order to 
minimize all inductance (Figure 16). To further 
reduce inductance, the resistors chosen for 
the design have the resistive element adjacent 
to the PCB, which reduces the current loop 
area due to the shunt relative to conventional 
surface mount resistors. The low duty cycle of 
DToF laser drivers allows the use of such small 
resistors even at very high currents.
Normally, it is desired to have a very small resis-
tance value for the shunt to minimize voltage 
Figure 23. Current measurement shunt resistor 
with parasitic inductance.
Figure 24. Simulation of current shunts and comparison of results for ideal shunt, uncompensated shunt with ESL, and compensated shunt using 
RC network. In this simulation, Rshunt = 100 mΩ and Lshunt = LESL = 40 pH. A half-sine pulse with pulse width of 2 ns FWHM.
of a much smaller shunt resistor value, in the 
same manner that a power converter might use 
inductor equivalent series resistance for current 
sensing [30]. In practice, it is still best to keep the 
ESL zero as high as practical without penalizing 
the overall pulse current performance of 
the design. The reason is that it is difficult to 
compensate the ESL zero exactly, so as it is 
increased in frequency, exact compensation 
becomes less critical. In the EPC9179, the chosen 
solution is to pick a value R
shunt = 100 mΩ, which 
is selected provide a maximum output voltage 
of approximately 10% of rated voltage at the 
max rated current. We can then determine the 
ESL pole frequency and use an RC network to 
compensate. If we choose a 50 Ω series resistor 
for the filter, R
shunt = 100 mΩ, and LESL = 40 pH, 
means that a compensation capacitor of 15 
pF will create a pole to cancel the zero. Figure 
24 shows simulation results for an ideal shunt, 
an uncompensated shunt, as described, and 
a compensated shunt using the values given. 
One can see the error introduced by 
LESL and the 
effectiveness of the compensation. The small 
glitch at the beginning of the compensated 
waveform is due to a small 200 pH inductance 
to check the effect of the capacitor ESL. The 
width of this glitch is approximately 25 ps 
which would not be seen in practice due to 
other bandwidth limitations in the real system 
(connector, scope, cable, etc.).
(12)
(13)
(14)
I3
SINE(0 1 {fres} 0 0 0 1)
C3
10p
R6
{Rshunt}
L3
{Lshunt}
R8
50
R10
50
Lser=200p
C4
15p
R5
VsenseCcomp
Shunt
equivalent
circuit
I4
SINE(0 1 {fres} 0 0 0 1)
C5
10p
R1
{Rshunt}
R3
50
50
VsenseIdeal
Shunt
equivalent
circuit
I1
SINE(0 1 {fres} 0 0 0 1)
C1
10p
R2
{Rshunt}
L1
{Lshunt}
R11
50
R12
50
Vsense
Shunt
equivalent
circuit
0.0ns 0.3ns 0.6ns 0.9ns 1.2ns 1.5ns 1.8ns 2.1ns 2.4ns 2.7ns 3.0ns
-20mV
-10mV
0mV
10mV
20mV
30mV
40mV
50mV
60mV
V(vsense) V(vsenseccomp)
V(vsenseideal)
Ideal shunt
Uncompensated
Compensated 
itest
LESL
vRshunt
Lext
Rshunt
vLESL
vsenseZsense
ℎ
2
, ℎ ≅
0.35
= 350 MHz 
 | | = 2 , ℎ =
2π(350 MHz)(40 pH) = 88 mΩ  

=== PAGE 16 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    16
Determination of the LESL is not straightforward. 
In the case of a laser diode load, the shape of 
the optical waveform can be determined with 
a high-speed optical detector. The optical 
power versus current characteristic is usually 
quite linear above the lasing threshold current 
of the diode, so the shape of the optical pulse 
is a good representation of the shape of the 
current pulse. This method does not provide 
a good means of determining the absolute 
pulse amplitude when used with diode lasers, 
but it can still be used to match the shape of 
the waveform and its timing relationship with 
other waveforms. Since the shape is very close 
to a half-sine, once the compensation yields the 
correct shape and timing, the result should be 
fairly accurate. All EPC development boards in 
this article have been verified with this method, 
and further work is ongoing to make the 
procedure more rigorous.
8.4  Resonant capacitors
A parallel set of small surface mount capacitors 
can be used to make a low inductance 
capacitor. The example of Figure 16 shows 
such an implementation using five 0402 
capacitors in parallel.  Once the inductance 
has been minimized, the main parameters 
under the designer’s control are voltage and 
resonant capacitance. Resonant capacitors 
should use NPO/C0G ceramic dielectric or 
some other type of dielectric with low loss 
and linear, stable properties, such as porcelain, 
glass, or mica. NPO/C0G capacitors are well 
suited for this application and the cost is low. 
Fortunately, it has been found when using 
NPO/C0G capacitors that a set of five parallel 
0402 or four parallel capacitors can meet 
almost all needs up to 200 V. In many cases, 
the necessary capacitance can be obtained 
with even fewer capacitors, but there will be 
some inductance penalty for choosing that 
route. This is frequently acceptable for many 
practical lidar designs.
8.5  Resonant capacitor charging
Charging of the resonant capacitor is key 
to proper operation. There are two main 
considerations: charging time and charging 
efficiency. Often, charging time is not a 
serious concern due to the low duty cycle of 
the laser. Until recently, charging efficiency 
was secondary, but this has changed with the 
increasing commercialization of lidar systems.
There are two main charging methods: 
resistive and inductive. Resistive charging 
is simple to implement and forgiving to 
the designer, i.e. it has very little impact on 
the power loop. However, it is not efficient. 
Inductive charging is usually implemented 
with a boost or flyback operating in DCM, 
often using a single pulse charging regime. It 
has much higher efficiency and the additional 
advantage of being able to boost a low voltage 
to the necessary charging voltage. However, 
the complexity is much higher, and it has the 
potential to contribute significant parasitics 
to the power loop. The development boards 
discussed in this document use resistive 
charging.
The resonant capacitor is charged through the 
charging resistor R
1, with a time constant τchrg  
given by (3). Since it takes t = 5 τchrg to charge 
the resonant cap to > 99% of the final value, 
we can set the max pulse repetition frequency 
to PRF  = 1/5 · τchrg. If a designer wants a 
higher value of PRF, they can either accept 
some droop in the laser output, or they can 
reduce the value of R
1. Reducing R1 will allow 
additional current to flow in Q1 when on, but 
this is likely to be acceptable for  5 τchrg >> tw.
For an ideal resonant system like that shown 
in Fig. 5 and the associated waveforms in Fig. 
6, we can see that except for the very first time 
the capacitor C
1 is charged, the initial state 
of the capacitor is VC1(t2) = VIN - 2 V DFL. It is a 
good approximation that during recharge, all 
power dissipation occurs in R
1, and the energy 
dissipated in R1 will be
Note that this is independent of R1. The power 
dissipation will be
A final consideration with resistive charging 
as described herein is that if the FET Q1 is 
on after the pulse is over, current will flow 
through the laser diode, limited by the value 
of the charging resistor 
R1. This will cause 
some light emission even if the current 
is below the lasing threshold of the laser 
diode, known as the LED mode of operation. 
Although this emission is very small, i.e. 4-5 
orders of magnitude below the peak laser 
emission, the end user should be aware of 
this and check that it is not a system concern.
8.6  Narrow pulse generator
A narrow pulse generator is also included 
on the EPC9150/79/80/81 series of boards. 
This circuit can be used to clean up the input 
of standard function generators, which by 
themselves are often not suitable as a signal 
source because the minimum pulse widths 
and transition times are often too long. 
The basic circuit is recommended by the 
manufacturer of the LMG1020 gate drive used 
in the boards [31], which is loosely based on 
the classic Jim Williams design [32]. This circuit 
can be enabled by a set of jumpers and has an 
adjustment range of approximately 1 ns to 50 
ns, enough to meet most needs.
8.7 Laser mounting
The EPC9150/79/80/81 series of boards was 
designed for flexibility in the package and 
mounting of the laser or other load. Figure 
16 shows the mounting pads on the PCB. 
The development boards also ship with 
the EPC9989 interposer assortment, which 
is a set of interposers that can be used to 
mount several commercial lasers as well as 
an assortment of different pad arrangements 
to accommodate a wide variety of loads and 
connectors. The use of an interposer is highly 
recommended if the laser or other load does 
not easily fit directly in the PCB, as is provides 
a repeatable connection with low inductance. 
The footprint is available online for those who 
wish to design an interposer for their own 
purpose [19, 20]. Detailed instructions on the 
use of the interposers are given in the QSGs 
for the boards. Figure 25 shows an example of 
a laser mounted with an interposer.
(15)
(16)
1 ℎ = 2 1( − )2 
1 ℎ = ∙ 1 ℎ  

=== PAGE 17 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    17
Figure 25. Photograph of an ams OSRAM SPL S1L90A_3 A01 laser mounted to an
EPC9179 development board using a low inductance interposer.
8.8  Alternative operating modes 
and topologies
In most of this article, the discussion has 
focused on resonant pulse drivers, with many 
of the advantages discussed in Section 5. 
However, resonant operation is not the only 
option. There are two key modifications 
that the user can make to the main mode of 
operation, and these are discussed below.
8.8.1 Dual edge control
As discussed, resonant capacitive discharge 
laser drivers have many useful properties. 
However, they do have a major limitation, 
namely that for a given power loop 
inductance, one has good control over the 
pulse height, but not the pulse width. Pulse 
width may also be used to control total pulse 
energy, and it can be easier to control than 
pulse amplitude, especially if such control is 
desired for individual pulses. Furthermore, 
in some cases, the laser diode or other load 
will need to be off the PCB. This necessitates 
some kind of interconnect which will add 
considerable inductance. Finally, in some 
cases, there is the need for ultra-fast edges on 
pulses of arbitrary width. In order to work with 
some of these limitations, one may use dual 
edge control, i.e. both turn-on and turn-off of 
the drive FET are used to control pulse shape.
For typical dual edge control applications, the 
values of the resonant capacitor and charging 
resistors will likely need to be changed. 
Typically, dual-edge control is a move away 
from resonant operation. Hence, it may be 
useful to replace the resonant capacitor with a 
larger value. If so, a change to Class II dielectric 
capacitors, e.g. X7R, makes sense. In the case 
where current must be limited, the charging 
resistor may be used for this purpose, since 
there is additional bus capacitance at the bus 
voltage input to the PCB. 
Finally, one must consider that the current in 
the power loop inductance will be interrupted 
when the switch is turned off, and this is likely 
to cause ringing and overshoot on the drain 
terminal of the FET and the laser diode or 
other load. This ringing will depend on the 
inductance, the current at the time of turn-off, 
and the capacitance of the laser, FET, and PCB. 
There is a provision for the addition of some 
clamp diodes to control voltage overshoot.
Finding a suitable clamp diode is very 
challenging. Most diodes have package 
inductance on the same order or even 
higher than the power loop inductance, 
and this limits response speed of the clamp. 
Furthermore, if the clamp current is high, a 
diode rated to handle this will tend to have 
substantial capacitance that will contribute 
additional ringing, which in some cases can 
result in repeated output pulses. In lidar 
applications, the latter is unacceptable. While 
smaller diodes can work in low duty cycle 
applications, and appear to survive, there 
is little in the way of manufacturers’ data 
about the behavior and reliability under such 
conditions. Unfortunately, the author cannot 
recommend a suitable clamp diode at this 
time. This is an area of open research.
When using the EPC9150/79/80/81 develop-
ment boards for dual edge control applications, 
it is recommended that both careful simulation 
and experimentation are planned. The 
latter is especially important, as the author’s 
experience is that for diodes selected to have 
the necessary voltage and current ratings, the 
available models do not accurately represent 
the behavior of the diodes for the extremely 
short transitions found in lidar applications. 
For commercial applications, a robust program 
of reliability testing is recommended for the 
clamp diodes.
The challenges of dual-edge control generally 
mean that the peak current must be limited 
to much lower values than discussed in this 
article. For lidar applications, this is generally 
the realm of IToF systems. This will be the 
focus of another article. EPC also makes a 
series of development boards targeted at 
IToF applications, and these are listed in the 
Appendix.
8.8.2  Fail-safe capacitor charging
There is another use case for a clamp diode, 
which is to provide an alternate charging and 
discharging path for the resonant capacitor. 
Such an alternate path is useful in the case 
where, during a fault that causes the switch 
Q1 
to stay on, the capacitor charging circuit can 
provide sufficient current to the laser to cause 
the system to fail eye safety radiation limits 
[33], [34]. This can happen at relatively low 
currents because the laser duty cycle is 100% 
under such conditions, and the average power 
can then exceed regulatory limits, which can 
be prevented using an alternate charging 
path, as shown in Figure 26.
With the conventional charging scheme, if V
IN 
is high enough and ZIN is low enough, a stuck 
on command or short circuit failure will result 
in a continuous current in the laser diode DL. 
In normal operation, the laser duty cycle is 
typically 0.1% to 1%, but a small continuous 
current of a few amps, in some cases < 1 A, 
can result in higher average power than one 
would get using 100 A pulses under normal 
PLACEMENT ONLY
EPC2252 FET
C1
Laser Interposer

=== PAGE 18 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    18
operation. Using the fail-safe scheme, a short 
resulting in Q1 staying on will prevent C 1 
from charging and laser DL from turning on. 
The EPC9179/80/81 (not the EPC9150) have 
a provision to employ the fail-safe charging 
scheme, and the instructions are in the QSG.
The fail-safe scheme has some additional 
properties of interest. In theory, it will prevent 
v
BUS from going negative and should slow 
down the turn-off of DL. In practice, the effect 
is small. It is supposed that the extra impe-
dance of the diode path slows the diode 
conduction enough that the turn-off speed 
penalty is small. However, the effect turns 
out to be difficult to model and predict at this 
time, in part due to the fact that the typical 
diode models do not always reflect behavior 
accurately at nanosecond time scales, and also 
because inductive parasitics play a beneficial 
role here by providing additional impedance 
that prevents the diode current from increasing 
so quickly that it affects laser D
L turn-off. This is 
not yet completely analyzed, but in this case 
the slow clamping discussed in Section 8.8.1 
may be a benefit rather than a drawback.  
If there are concerns about this, a small resistor 
in series with D
clmp can ensure that the clamp 
diode path time constant is slow enough to 
have little effect on D
L turn-off speed. Another 
benefit of this scheme is that it provides a 
means for the resonant cap to naturally return 
to ~ 0 V after the resonant inductor current 
pulls it below zero. This means that not all the 
recharging current is supplied from the high 
potential of v
BUS and thus power dissipation in 
9  Conclusion
The superior performance of GaN power 
transistors and ICs enables the generation of 
extreme current pulses of tens to hundreds 
of amps a few nanoseconds wide from a 
couple square centimeters of PCB area. All 
this can be done at low cost, in high volume 
production using standard PCB technology 
with automotive qualified components. 
This ability has already revolutionized the 
lidar market by making affordable, high 
performance lidar possible in a small form 
factor. It is likely that there are many other 
applications for this capability. What can 
you do with hundreds of amps in a few 
nanoseconds?
 Figure 26. Conventional (left) versus fail-safe (right) charging and discharging paths.
Figure 27 . Comparison of conventional and fail-safe charging modes for an EPC9179 evaluation board with an ams OSRAM S1L90A_3 A01 
laser installed. The thin traces show the unmodified board and the thick traces show the results with the fail-safe modification.
the charging resistor is reduced compared to 
that given by (15).
Although the fail-safe charging method has 
some potential advantages, the boards are 
shipped using the conventional method. 
This is because the fail-safe charging method 
is subject to an additional set of parasitic 
components both within the layout and 
especially within the diode used for the 
clamp. This makes operation less predictable 
and design more ad hoc. However, the 
method is promising and for a commercial 
application where the particular laser 
specifications are set, it is likely that a design 
can be found. Hence, the option is available in 
the development board PCB.
VCAP , 20 V/div
VOUT (vDS), 
10 V/div
SHUNT (iLASER),
19.6 A/div Eye-safe
VGS, 1 V/div
VIN
Conventional
Charge
Discharge
Short failure
Fail-safe
v1
L1
ZIN
C1
vcommand
Q1
vGS
+
+
_
_
DL
iDL
vDS
v1
L1
C1
Dclmp
vcommand
Q1
vGS
+ _
DL
iDL
vDS
ZIN

=== PAGE 19 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    19
10  Appendix
Table 5 summarizes a subset of EPC FETs and ICs that have associated development boards targeted for use as laser drivers and other high current 
pulse applications.
11  References
[1] A . Lidow, M. de Rooij, J. Glaser, A. Pozo Arribas, S. Zhang, M. Palma, D. Reusch, GaN Transistors for Efficient Power Conversion, 4th ed. Wiley, 2025.
[2] J . Glaser, “How GaN power transistors drive high-performance lidar: Generating ultrafast pulsed power with GaN FETs,” IEEE Power Electronics 
Magazine, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 25–35, Mar. 2017 , doi: 10.1 109/MPEL.2016.2643099
[3] G laser, John S., “GaN-based Solutions for Cost Effective Direct and Indirect Time-of-Flight Lidar Transmitters,” presented at the PSMA Power 
Technology Roadmap Webinar Series, Dec. 10, 2020.
[4] “ Global Automotive LIDAR Market Analysis and Forecast Report 2023: A $3.1 Billion Market by 2028 from $555 Million in 2022 - Rising Demand for 
Autonomous Vehicles/Increasing Sales of Electric Vehicles - ResearchAndMarkets.com,” Apr. 07 , 2023. Available: https://www.businesswire.com/
news/home/20230407005055/en/Global-Automotive-LIDAR-Market-Analysis-and-Forecast-Report-2023-A-3.1-Billion-Market-by-2028-from-555-
Million-in-2022---Rising-Demand-for-Autonomous-VehiclesIncreasing-Sales-of-Electric-Vehicles---ResearchAndMarkets.com. [Accessed: Apr. 14, 
2024]
[5] P . Boulay, “LIDAR for ADAS and AV Applications: Emerging Trends and Developments,” presented at the Automotive LIDAR 2022 Conference and 
Expo, Online, Sep. 22, 2022. Available: www.automotivelidar.com
[6] P ozo, Alejandro et al., “EPC eGaN® Device Reliability Testing: Phase 12,” Efficient Power Conversion Corporation, 2021.  
Available: https://epc-co.com/epc/Portals/0/epc/documents/product-training/Reliability%20Report%20Phase%2012.pdf
[7] G laser, John S., “EPC9179, EPC9180, and EPC9181 Quick Start Guide Rev. 2.” Efficient Power Conversion Corporation, 2023.  
Available: https://epc-co.com/epc/documents/guides/EPC9179_qsg.pdf
[8] P . F. McManamon, LiDAR Technologies and Systems. SPIE, 2019. doi: 10.1 1 17/3.2518254. Available: https://www.spiedigitallibrary.org/ebooks/PM/
LiDAR-Technologies-and-Systems/eISBN-9781510625402/10.1117/3.2518254. [Accessed: Mar. 02, 2022]
[9] O SRAM Opto Semiconductors, Inc., “SPL PL90_3 Datasheet.” Nov. 20, 2015.  
Available: https://www.osram-os.com/Graphics/XPic3/00194568_0.pdf/SPL%20PL90_3.pdf
[10] a ms-OSRAM AG, “SPL S1L90A_3 A01 Datasheet.” Jul. 19, 2019.  
Available: https://ams-osram.com/products/lasers/ir-lasers-eel/osram-smt-laser-spl-s1l90a-3-a01
[1 1] a ms-OSRAM AG, “SPL S4L90A_3 A01 Datasheet.” Dec. 20, 2023.  
Available: https://ams-osram.com/products/lasers/ir-lasers-eel/osram-smt-laser-spl-s4l90a-3-a01
Part Number Technology Special Features Automotive 
Qualification Voltage Rating Pulse Current 
Rating
Suggested 
Application
Development 
Board
EPC2212 eGaN FET AEC-Q101 100 75 DToF EPC9126
EPC2001C eGaN FET n/a 100 150 DToF EPC9126HC
EPC2216 eGaN FET AEC-Q101 15 28 IToF EPC9144
EPC2034C eGaN FET n/a 200 213 DToF EPC9150
EPC21601 eToF IC Integrated gate drive with 
logic level input, 150 MHz n/a 40 15 IToF EPC9154
EPC21603 eToF IC Integrated gate drive with 
LVDS input, 150 MHz n/a 40 15 IToF EPC9156
EPC21701 eToF IC Integrated gate drive with 
logic level input, 50 MHz n/a 80 15 IToF EPC9172
EPC2252 eGaN FET AEC-Q101 80 75 DToF EPC9179
EPC2218A eGaN FET AEC-Q101 80 135 DToF EPC9180
EPC2204A eGaN FET AEC-Q101 80 230 DToF EPC9181
EPC2203 eGaN FET AEC-Q101 80 17 IToF, DToF E PC91116
Table 5. Summary of EPC laser and pulse current driver development boards

=== PAGE 20 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN032 Design of High Current Nanosecond Resonant Pulse Drivers for Laser Diodes, Lidar, and other Applications
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |    ©2025   |   For more information: info@epc-co.com  |    20
[12] a ms-OSRAM AG, “EGA2000_940_W_Short_Datasheet.” Apr. 26, 2021.
[13] S . Morgott, “Range finding using pulse lasers,” Osram Opto Semiconductors, Regensberg, Germany, Application note, Sep. 2004.  
Available: http://www.osram-os.com/Graphics/XPic2/00054201_0.pdf/Range%20Finding%20using%20Pulsed%20Laser%20Diodes.pdf
[14] E fficient Power Conversion Corporation, “EPC2252 data sheet.” Jan. 2023.  
Available: http://epc-co.com/epc/Portals/0/epc/documents/datasheets/epc2252_datasheet.pdf
[15] E fficient Power Conversion Corporation, “EPC2204A Datasheet.” Aug. 2022.  
Available: https://epc-co.com/epc/Portals/0/epc/documents/datasheets/EPC2204A_datasheet.pdf. [Accessed: Oct. 08, 2024]
[16] E fficient Power Conversion Corporation, “EPC2218A data sheet.” May 2023.  
Available: http://epc-co.com/epc/Portals/0/epc/documents/datasheets/epc2216_datasheet.pdf
[17] I nfineon Technologies AG, “IAUZ40N08S5N100 data sheet.” Sep. 16, 2019.  
Available: https://www.infineon.com/dgdl/Infineon-IAUZ40N08S5N100-DataSheet-v01_00-EN.pdf?fileId=5546d4626f1cf1c5016f1e6c94a801de
[18] D . Reusch and J. Strydom, “Understanding the effect of PCB layout on circuit performance in a high frequency gallium nitride based point of 
load converter,” in 2013 twenty-eighth annual IEEE applied power electronics conference and exposition (APEC), Mar. 2013, pp. 649–655. doi: 
10.1109/APEC.2013.6520279
[19] “ EPC9179: 80 V, 75 A Laser Diode Driver Evaluation Board | EPC.”  
Available: https://epc-co.com/epc/products/evaluation-boards/epc9179. [Accessed: Apr. 14, 2024]
[20] “ EPC9180: 80 V, 230 A Laser Diode Driver Evaluation Board | EPC.”  
Available: https://epc-co.com/epc/products/evaluation-boards/epc9180. [Accessed: Apr. 14, 2024]
[21] J . S. Glaser, “Kilowatt Laser Driver with 120 A, sub-10 nanosecond pulses in lt; 3 cm2 using an GaN FET,” in PCIM asia 2018; international 
exhibition and conference for power electronics, intelligent motion, renewable energy and energy management, Jun. 2018, pp. 1–6.
[22] E fficient Power Conversion Corporation, “Development Board EPC9150 Quick Start Guide,” 2021.  
Available: https://epc-co.com/epc/Portals/0/epc/documents/guides/EPC9150_qsg.pdf
[23] “ EPC9150: 2000 V, 214 A Laser Diode Driver Evaluation Board | EPC.”  
Available: https://epc-co.com/epc/products/evaluation-boards/epc9150. [Accessed: Apr. 14, 2024]
[24] E fficient Power Conversion Corporation, “EPC2034C data sheet.” Jun. 2020.  
Available: http://epc-co.com/epc/Portals/0/epc/documents/datasheets/epc2034c_datasheet.pdf
[25] I sola Group, “Isola FR408HR data sheet,” Aug. 2017 ,  
Available: http://www.isola-group.com/wp-content/uploads/data-sheets/fr408hr.pdf. [Accessed: Oct. 14, 2017]
[26] H oward Johnson and Martin Graham, High Speed Digital Design: A Handbook of Black Magic, 1st Edition. Prentice Hall, Inc., 1993.
[27] “ LVDS Application and Data Handbook,” 2002.
[28] J . Weber, “Oscilloscope probe circuits,” Tektronix, Inc., 1969.
[29] T ektronix Inc., “Tektronix P6158 20X 1 kohm Low Capacitance Probe For 50 Ohm Oscilloscopes, 071-0123-00.” Feb. 24, 1998.  
Available: https://download.tek.com/manual/071012300.pdf
[30] L infinity, Inc., “A simple current-sense technique eliminating a sense resistor,” Jul. 1998.
[31] T exas Instruments, “LMG1020 5-V, 7-A, 5-A Low-Side GaN and MOSFET Driver For 1-ns Pulse Width Applications datasheet (Rev. B).” Oct. 16, 
2018. Available: https://www.ti.com/lit/gpn/lmg1020
[32] J . Williams, “Signal sources, conditioners and power circuitry - circuits of the fall, 2004,” Linear Technology, Application note AN98, Nov. 2004.
[33] S . Morgott, “Optical radiation safety information,” Osram Opto Semiconductors, Application note, Dec. 2004.  
Available: http://www.osram-os.com/Graphics/XPic4/00018294_0.pdf/Optical
[34] “ IEC 60825-1:2014 Safety of laser products - Part 1: Equipment classification and requirements.” International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), 
May 15, 2014. Available: https://webstore.iec.ch/en/publication/3587