
=== PAGE 1 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN002 GaN Power Transistors
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |   ©2020   | |    1
Operation
EPC’s enhancement mode gallium nitride (eGaN®) 
transistors behave very similarly to silicon power 
MOSFETs. A positive bias on the gate relative to 
the source causes a field effect which attracts 
electrons that complete a bidirectional channel 
between the drain and the source. A key difference 
between gallium nitride (GaN) and silicon is that 
the electrons in the 2DEG are not associated to 
any particular atom, as opposed to being loosely 
trapped in a lattice, they have an equal probability 
of being anywhere in the plane. The result is a 
channel of resistance much lower than that of 
silicon. When the bias is removed from the gate, 
the electrons under it are dispersed into the GaN, 
recreating the depletion region, and once again, 
giving it the capability to block voltage. 
Structure
A device’s cost effectiveness starts with leveraging 
existing production infrastructure. EPC’s 
manufacturing utilizes standard CMOS tools to 
fabricate their devices. EPC’s process begins with 
silicon wafers. Using an MOCVD reactor, a thin 
layer of aluminum nitride (AlN) is grown on the 
silicon to transition the crystal from silicon to GaN. 
This is a seed layer used to grow a thick layer of 
highly resistive GaN on the silicon wafer. GaN is 
a wide bandgap material that can support high 
voltage at small distances. The GaN layer provides 
a foundation on which to build the GaN transistor. 
An aluminum gallium nitride (AlGaN) layer is 
deposited resulting in a piezoelectric polarization, 
with an abundance of electrons being generated 
just below the AlGaN that is highly conductive. 
This abundance of electrons is known as a two 
dimensional electron gas (2DEG).
Further processing forms a depletion region under 
the gate. To enhance the transistor, a positive 
voltage is applied to the gate in the same manner 
as turning on an n-channel, enhancement mode 
power MOSFET. A cross section of this structure 
is depicted in figure 1. This structure is repeated 
many times to form a power device. The end result 
is a fundamentally simple, elegant, cost effective 
solution for power switching. This device behaves 
similarly to silicon MOSFETs with some exceptions 
that will be explained in the following sections.
To obtain a higher voltage device, the distance 
between the Drain and Gate is increased. As the 
resistivity of GaN 2DEG is very low, the impact on 
resistance by increasing blocking voltage capability 
is much lower when compared with silicon . 
Figure 2 shows the theoretical resistance times die 
area limits of GaN versus silicon  versus voltage.  
EPC’s fifth generation of devices is shown as 
well. Please note that after 30 years of MOSFET 
development, silicon has approached its theoretical 
limits. Progress in silicon has slowed to the point 
where small gains have significant development 
cost. GaN is young in its life cycle, and will see 
significant improvement in the years to come.
Fundamentals of Gallium Nitride 
Power Transistors
Stephen L. Colino and Robert A. Beach, Ph.D.
The basic requirements for power semiconductors are efficiency, reliability, 
controllability, and cost effectiveness. High frequency capability adds further 
value in size and transient response in regulators, and fidelity in class D amplifiers. 
Without efficiency and reliability, a new device structure would have no chance of 
economic viability. There have been many new structures and materials considered; 
some have been economic successes, others have seen limited or niche acceptance. 
Breakthroughs by EPC in processing gallium nitride have produced enhancement 
mode devices with high conductivity and hyper fast switching, with a silicon-like cost 
structure and fundamental operating mechanism. 
Si
S G D
GaN
Electron generating layer
Dielectric Aluminum nitride
isolation layer
EFFICIENT POWER CONVERSION
EPC2215
GaN Limit
101
100
10-1
10-2
10-3
10-4
101 102 103 104
SiC Limit
Si Limit
100 V
Breakdown Voltage (V)
200 V
Speci/f_ic R DS(on) (/uni03A9mm2)
EPC2218
Figure 2. Theoretical resistance times die area limits GaN vs. silicon vs. voltageFigure 1. EPCs’ GaN Power Transistor Structure

=== PAGE 2 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN002 GaN Power Transistors
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |   ©2020   | |    2
Gate Threshold
The threshold of gallium nitride transistors is lower 
than that of silicon MOSFETs. This is made possible 
by the almost flat relationship between threshold 
and temperature along with the very low C GD, 
as described later. Figure 3 shows the transfer 
characteristics curve for the EPC2218, 100 V, 3.2 mΩ 
(max) transistor. Please note the negative relationship 
between current and temperature. This provides for 
excellent sharing all regions of operation, which will 
be explained later. Even with significant conduction 
current above 1.7 V, The Ratio of QGD to QGS(th) is 0.8 
indicating that the device will be held off regardless 
of dv/dt.
Resistance
RDS(on) versus V GS curves are similar to MOSFETs. 
EPC fifth generation GaN transistors are designed 
to operate with 5 V drive. Figure 4 shows the set of 
curves for the EPC2218. The curve shows that RDS(on) 
flattens as the absolute maximum gate voltage is 
approached. As there is negligible gate drive loss 
penalty, GaN transistors should be driven with 5 V. 
The temperature coefficient of R DS(on) of the GaN 
transistor is also similar to the silicon MOSFET as it 
is positive with about the same magnitude or 1.52x 
of the 25°C point at 100°C point for the EPC2218.
Capacitance 
In addition to the low R DS(on), the lateral structure 
of the GaN transistor makes it a very low charge 
device as well. It has the capability of switching 
hundreds of volts in nanoseconds, giving it multiple 
megahertz capability. This capability will lead to 
smaller power converters, and higher fidelity class 
D amplifiers. Most important in switching is C GD. 
With the lateral structure, C GD comes only from 
a small corner of the gate. An extremely low C GD 
leads to the very rapid voltage switching capability 
of GaN transistors.
CGS consists of the junction from the gate to the 
channel, and the capacitance of the dielectric 
between the gate and the field plate. C GD is very 
small when compared with C GS, giving GaN 
transistors excellent dv/dt immunity. CGS still small 
when compared with silicon MOSFETs giving them 
very short delay times, and excellent controllability 
in low duty cycle applications. A 48 V to 1 V buck 
regulator has been demonstrated at 1 MHz using  
100 V GaN transistors from EPC. C DS is also small, 
being limited to the capacitance across the 
dielectric from the field plate to the drain and 
drain to substrate. Physical capacitance locations 
are shown in figure 5. Capacitance versus voltage 
curves for GaN again look similar to those for 
silicon except that for with a similar resistance, its 
capacitance is significantly lower and flattens out 
much sooner. Capacitance curves for the EPC2218 
are shown in figure 6.
Series Gate Resistance and Leakage 
Series gate resistance (R G) limits how quickly the 
capacitance of a field effect transistor can be 
charged or discharged. Silicon MOSFETs are limited 
to using polysilicon or silicide where GaN transistors 
use metal gates. The metal gates enable GaN to 
have gate resistances of a couple tenths of an 
ohm. This low gate resistance also helps with dV/dt 
immunity. 
For isolating the gate, oxide growth is not an option 
with GaN. For this reason, the gate leakage current 
of GaN transistors is higher than that of silicon 
MOSFETs. Designers should expect gate leakage 
on the order of 1 mA. As these are low gate drive 
voltage devices, losses associated with gate leakage 
are low. 
Figure of Merit 
Total gate charge (Q G) is the integral of C GS plus 
CGD over voltage. A common figure of merit that 
takes both on state and switching performance 
into account is (RDS(on) x QG). Figure of merit for GaN 
transistors versus best in class silicon MOSFETs are 
presented in figure 7 for 100 V devices and figure 8 
for 200 V devices. 
  ID  – Drain Current (A)
  VGS  – Gate-to-Source Voltage (V) 
1.00.5 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0
200
150
100
50
0
25˚C
125˚C
VDS = 3 V
8
6
4
2
0 2.5 3.02.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0
RDS(on) – Drain-to-Source Resistance (m/uni03A9)
VGS – Gate-to-Source Voltage (V)
ID = 12 A
ID = 25 A
ID = 37 A
ID = 50 A
S G
D
CGS
CGD
CDS
GaN Capacitance (pF)
0 25 50 75 100
  VDS  – Drain-to-Source Voltage (V) 
1600
1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
COSS = CGD + CSD
CISS = CGD + CGS
CRSS = CGD
Figure 3. Transfer characteristics curve
Figure 4: RDS(on) vs. VGS at various currents Figure 6. Capacitance curves, EPC2218
Figure 5. Physical capacitance locations
Figure 7. 
Figure 8. 
400
300
200
100
0
EPC2218 BRAND A BRAND B BRAND C
FOM =RDS(on) x QG (100 V)
3000
2000
1000
0
EPC2215
FOM =RDS(on) x QG (200 V)
BRAND A BRAND B BRAND C

=== PAGE 3 ===
APPLICATION NOTE: AN002 GaN Power Transistors
EPC – POWER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY LEADER   |   EPC-CO.COM    |   ©2020   | |    3
Body Diode 
The last part of the performance picture is that of the 
so-called “body diode”. As seen from figure 1, EPC’s 
GaN transistor structure is a purely lateral device, 
absent of the parasitic bipolar transistor common 
to silicon based MOSFETs. As such, reverse bias or 
“diode” operation has a different mechanism but 
similar function. With zero bias gate to source, there 
is an absence of electrons under the gate region.  
As the drain voltage is decreased, a positive bias 
on the gate is created relative to the drift region, 
injecting electrons under the gate. Once the 
gate threshold is reached, there will be sufficient 
electrons under the gate to form a conductive 
channel. The benefit to this mechanism is that there 
are no minority carriers involved in conduction, 
and therefore no reverse recovery charge (Q RR) or 
loss. While Q RR is zero, output capacitance (C OSS) 
has to be charged and discharged with every 
switching cycle. For devices of similar R DS(on), GaN 
transistors have significantly lower COSS than silicon 
MOSFETs. As it takes threshold voltage to turn 
on the GaN transistor in the reverse direction, the 
forward voltage of the “diode” is higher than silicon 
transistors. As with silicon MOSFETs, care should 
be taken to minimize diode conduction time. As 
fundamental operation of GaN transistors is similar 
to that of silicon MOSFETs, they can be represented 
schematically the same way as shown in figure 9.
Packaging
EPC’s GaN transistors use wafer level packaging using 
either ball or land grid arrays. The terminal side of the 
EPC2218, a 3.5 mm x 1.95 mm, 3.2 mΩ (max.) 100 V 
GaN transistor is shown in figure 10. With all terminals 
being on the same side, inductance, particularly 
inductance common to gate drive and power loops, 
are small compared with silicon MOSFETs that require 
wire bonds or clips to bring all terminals to the PCB. 
Low power loop inductance reduces overshoot 
and ringing, reducing both power dissipation and 
EMI. Low common source inductance reduces 
current commutation time. In addition, EPC’s GaN 
Transistors have efficient cooling paths to both the 
top and bottom of the device. Using top side cooling 
allows for the highest current and power density 
of these transistors. Mounting a heat spreader to 
threaded surface mount standoffs around the power 
FETs controls FET to a heat spreader gap that is 
inexpensive to manufacture.
For discrete devices, the source is connected to 
the substrate (either internally or externally), and 
electrical insulation is needed between a high 
side device and a ground referenced heat sink.  
Junction isolation is used in monolithic half bridge 
configuration, keeping the substrate at the low side 
source potential.  Electrical isolation is not needed 
when both the low side source and the heat sink are 
at ground potential.
Applications and Value
EPC brings enhancement mode to GaN. This allows 
immediate realization of the disruptive gains in 
efficient high frequency and low duty cycle power 
conversion. Other “exotic” technologies are either 
cost prohibitive or use depletion mode. Depletion 
mode devices lose control when there is no power, 
and require new development in control ICs.
GaN transistors will bring a leap in Class D audio 
technology by enabling efficient switching at 
frequencies above the AM band. Fidelity will 
approach Class A and Class AB systems without all of 
the size and weight limitations of linear amplifiers. 
They will allow high quality amplifiers to be built 
into very tight spaces such as flat screen televisions, 
computers and speakers.
In information processing and storage systems, the 
whole power architecture can be re-evaluated to take 
advantage of the outstanding switching capabilities. 
As output voltage increases for AC/DC converters, 
efficiency goes up. As bus voltage increases, 
transmission efficiency goes up. As frequency 
increases, size goes down. EPC GaN enables the last 
stage which enables the first two while increasing 
AC/DC efficiency when used as synchronous 
rectifiers. They also allow for intermediate stage 
converters to be removed for single step conversion, 
saving the size and cost of the intermediate stage 
converter.
Conclusion
EPC gallium nitride transistors bring tremendous 
performance and size advantages over silicon. 
These advantages can be applied to gain efficiency 
advantages, size advantages, or a combination of 
both, with application requirements and a cost 
structure that are similar to silicon. To take full 
advantage of GaN, power architects should rethink 
their system. The future of GaN transistors is now.
G
D
S
Figure 9. 
Figure 10. 
