
=== PAGE 1 ===
Design Considerations of a GaN-based Three-Level
Traction Inverter for Electric Vehicles
Subhransu Satpathy
FREEDM Systems Center
NC State University
Raleigh, USA
ssatpat2@ncsu.edu
Partha Pratim Das
FREEDM Systems Center
NC State University
Raleigh, USA
ppdas@ncsu.edu
Subhashish Bhattacharya
FREEDM Systems Center
NC State University
Raleigh, USA
sbhatta4@ncsu.edu
Victor Veliadis
FREEDM Systems Center
NC State University
Raleigh, USA
jvveliad@ncsu.edu
Abstract—This paper demonstrates a GaN-based three-level
inverter design for an electric vehicle (EV) traction application.
The basic power block is a three-level active neutral point
clamped (3L-ANPC) converter operating at 800 V DC bus voltage
with the use of two paralleled 650 V, 60 A GaN E-HEMTs. The
paper focuses on switching mode selection for better thermal per-
formance of high-power 3L-ANPC inverters. The paper presents
design details and guidelines for power layout structure and
gate driver . The key parasitic inductances of the designed power
block are extracted using ANSYS Q3D. A PLECS simulation
model using the device loss parameters shows approximate power
delivering capability of 41 kW for the designed forced air-cooled
three-phase inverter . Experimental double pulse test results are
presented with low voltage overshoot to verify the low inductance
power loop design. Experimental results of the three-phase 3L-
ANPC inverter operation at 70 kHz switching frequency are
presented for delivered output power of 5.1 kW at 550 V DC.
Index Terms—GaN, Three-level Active Neutral Point Clamped
(3L-ANPC), traction inverter, and electric vehicle.
I. I NTRODUCTION
A high DC bus voltage ( VDC) of 800 V will beneﬁt the
EV fast chargers and also enable the design of faster electric
motors with lower copper loss [1]. The use of traditional
two-level inverters for a higher DC bus voltage will result
in higher losses with the use of 1200 V rated switching
devices [2]. Moreover, the high voltage dv/dt will cause
more stress across the turn-turn and coil-coil insulation of
the motor. This will require expensive insulation solutions
for traction motors [3]. Typical approaches for dv/dt mitiga-
tion at inverter output include the use of LCR ﬁlters which
add to the overall loss and result in a signiﬁcant inductor
voltage drop [4]. A simpler solution by slower switching
of power devices for dv/dt stress mitigation leads to under-
utilization of wide bandgap devices [5]. This has led to
increased interest in three-level converter topologies, which
can be realized with 600 V to 650 V rated power devices.
The lower voltage switching enables higher efﬁciency, lower
electromagnetic interference (EMI), and lesser motor loss [6].
Further, the reduced turn-turn voltage stress enables high dv/dt
operation with no additional LCR ﬁlter. This paper selects a
three-level active neutral point clamped (3L-ANPC) converter
topology as the basic power design block. The 3L-ANPC
topology offers the advantage of an active selection of zero
Fig. 1: Three phase 3L-ANPC topology showing the different
switches: inner, outer and clamping.
states, allowing for smaller commutation loop inductance and
better loss distribution compared to 3L-diode neutral point
clamped (3L-DNPC) topology [7]. Also, 3L-ANPC offers
better fault-tolerant operation for a single device short/open
failure condition for a dual battery fed traction inverter [8].
Enhancement mode GaN HEMTs (GaN E-HEMTs) with
lower switching charge ( Qg), zero reverse recovery loss,
and smaller output capacitance produce signiﬁcantly lower
switching losses compared to similar rated SiC and Si power
devices. A datasheet-based comparative evaluation chart of
commercially available power semiconductor devices with
different available ratings from various manufacturers is pre-
sented in Fig.2. A 650 V, 60 A GaN E-HEMT (GS66516B)
has been used in this paper for the design of the power
block. GaN E-HEMT manufacturers typically chose Si sub-
strate for cost-beneﬁt even though Si has signiﬁcantly lower
thermal conductivity compared to SiC ( kSi = 1.5 W/cm K
and kSiC = 4.9 W/cm K) [9]. This leads to the degradation
in efﬁciency of the GaN E-HEMTs at higher temperatures,
particularly due to signiﬁcantly high conduction losses. The
temperature-dependent switching loss and on-state resistance
(Rds,on) characteristics of the selected device are shown in
Fig.5a and Fig.5b respectively. Hence, careful attention needs
to be given to the thermal design of the power block for high-
power inverters. In this regard, this paper presents the preferred
switching mode, power layout, and gate drive design approach.
978-1-6654-8900-3/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 192
2022 IEEE 9th Workshop on Wide Bandgap Power Devices & Applications (WiPDA) | 978-1-6654-8900-3/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/WiPDA56483.2022.9955248
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
Fig. 2: FOM comparison of commercially available power
semiconductor devices.
II. 3L-ANPC P OWER BLOCK DESIGN
A. Switching Mode Selection
3L-ANPC topology enables several possible switching
modes of operation to realize the P, 0, and N states. The
P, 0 and N states correspond to the switching pole voltages
(VAO) +0.5Vdc, 0 and−0.5Vdc respectively as shown in Fig.1.
However, there are several switching possibilities to realize
them. The use of the clamping switch produces two switching
possibilities each for P and N states termed as ( PC,P C′) and
(NC,N C′). There are three switching possibilities for zero
states termed as 0+, 0−, and 0F . The switching states are
shown in Table.I.
TABLE I: Switching States of P, 0 and N states
S1 S2 S3 S4 S5 S6
PC 1 1 0 0 0 1
PC′ 1 1 0 0 0 0
0+ 0 1 0 0 1 1
0F 0 1 1 0 1 1
0− 0 0 1 0 1 1
NC′ 0 0 1 1 0 0
NC 0 0 1 1 1 0
Fig. 3: Realization of different switching states in 3L-ANPC
The switching mode of 3L-ANPC inﬂuences the selection of
devices and planning of power layout structure. Therefore it is
considered the ﬁrst step of the design process. It is preferred to
selectPC andNC for realizingP andN states to ensure that
the steady-state voltages across the off devices are clamped
to half DC bus. It is also preferred to avoid the power loop
commutation at full load current using the higher inductance
path, i.e., the longer loop Llg shown in Fig.3. Therefore the
two switching modes of operation compared here for power
block design are - (1) short-loop and (2) full mode switching
[10].
(a) Short-loop switching mode.
 (b) Full switching mode
Fig. 4: High frequency and line frequency switching of outer,
clamping and inner switches in 3L-ANPC for short-loop and
full switching mode.
Switching betweenPC↔ 0+ andNC↔ 0− states results
in power loop commutation through short loop path only
with lower inductance Lst shown in Fig.3. This is termed
short-loop switching. Outer and clamping switches operate
at switching frequency while the inner device operates at
line frequency for this switching mode, as shown in Fig.4.
Therefore to lower the overall system cost, Si-based MOSFETs
are often selected over wide bandgap (WBG) devices for
inner devices in hybrid 3L-ANPC converter designs [11].
However, the inner devices that conduct during both on and off
state result in signiﬁcantly high conduction losses. Moreover,
the switching implementation of the short loop requires an
additional decision logic to select between 0+/0− based on
the previous state PC/NC.
For high-power GaN-based 3L-ANPC design, the conduc-
tion loss dominates the overall inverter loss. The inner and
clamping device conduction losses are signiﬁcantly reduced
using full mode switching [10]. The 0+ and 0− paths shown
in Fig.3 are operated in parallel for0F mode. Hence it reduces
the zero state conduction loss to half. However, full mode
switching operation requires all the devices to operate at
switching frequency, as shown in Fig.4. Therefore GaN E-
HEMTs are used for all the switches in 3L-ANPC operation
in this work. The clamping and inner devices operate syn-
chronously in parallel for the full mode, sharing half current.
This keeps the overall switching losses in a full mode similar
to the short-loop mode. The total loss is reduced with better
distribution across the devices. Further, the switching logic
implementation is simpliﬁed because of a single zero state
0F . The top inner switch S2 and bottom clamping switch S6
193
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
share a common gate signal. Analogously, S3 andS5 share a
common gate signal.
(a) Switching loss ( Eon + Eof f) vs junction
temperature (Gate drive resistance: Ron/Rof f =
12 Ω / 4 Ω )
(b) Rds,on vs junction temperature
Fig. 5: Switching and conduction loss variation of selected
GaN device (GS66516B) with junction temperature.
A comparative evaluation of short-loop and full switching
mode is done using PLECS thermal simulation. The simu-
lation requires a thermal model of the packaged device with
temperature dependent turn-on loss (Eon), turn-off loss (Eof f)
and on-state resistanceRds,on. Towards that, the junction-case
Cauer RC network model of the packaged GaN E-HEMT is
obtained from the device manufacturer datasheet [12]. For
determination ofEon andEof f, the LTSpice model provided
by the device manufacturer is used. The parasitic inductances
input to the LTSpice simulation are extracted using ANSYS
Q3D for the designed 3L-ANPC power block. The obtained
switching losses andRds,on of the selected device are shown in
Fig.5a and Fig.5b respectively. The details of the case-heatsink
thermal design are discussed in Section.II-B. The electrical
and thermal parameters used for the simulation are tabulated
in Table.II and Table.III respectively.
TABLE II: Electrical Parameters selected for simulation
Parameter Value Description
Vdc 800 V DC bus voltage
Ipk 30 A Peak line-line current
m 0.3 - 1 Modulation index
pf 0.5 - 1 Power factor
fref 1 kHz Fundamental frequency of 3L-ANPC
fsw 50 kHz Switching frequency
Fig. 6: Temperature rise of outer, clamping and inner switches
during 3L-ANPC operation with short and full switching
modes.
The thermal stress distribution across outer, inner, and
clamping switches strongly depends on the operating mod-
ulation index (m) and power factor (pf). As we move to low
m operation, the increased zero state period results in high
conduction loss for inner and clamping switches. Similarly,
as we move to low pf operation, the clamping switches get
more often hard-switched, resulting in higher switching losses
across them. The inner devices conduct during both P/N and
0 states. This makes inner device conduction losses always
high irrespective ofm andpf. These trends of thermal stress
variation are observed in junction temperature (Tj) for outer,
inner, and clamping devices in Fig.6. The thermal stress is
determined for short-loop and full switching mode operation
considering an ambient temperature of Tamb = 45 ◦C and
a peak current of 30 A through each GaN E-HEMT. Fig.6
shows a major reduction inTj of inner and clamping switches
achieved particularly at lower m using the full switching
mode. Therefore under the worst case operating condition of
m = 1 and unity power factor, the three-phase inverter rating is
estimated atPmax = 41 kW. This estimation if forTj(max) =
125 ◦C consideringTamb = 45 ◦C with two parallel GaN E-
HEMTs delivering 34 A peak current per device at Vdc =
800 V.
B. Thermal Design
The previous section highlighted the selection of switching
mode that enables lower heating of GaN E-HEMTs for higher
efﬁciency. This section focuses on the thermal design ap-
proaches for a GaN-based high-power converter design. Using
top-cooled devices with top-side heat sink mounting typically
prevents the placement of key surface mount technology
(SMT) components like decoupling capacitors and gate drive
circuits close to the device. This problem is often resolved by
the design of multilayer FR4 PCBs. Multilayer PCBs require
thermal vias or pedestal heat sinks as cooling solution. A
custom pedestal heat sink increases the design complexity
and is not discussed in this work. Multilayer PCBs are often
194
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
(a) IMS PCB
(b) Equivalent thermal circuit of each
half-bridge unit.
Fig. 7: Thermal network for the IMS PCB based 3L-ANPC.
S1a and S1b represent the the two parallel GaN E-HEMTs
which form the S1 switch.
used to create vertical ﬂux cancellation paths to enable ultra-
low power loop inductance [13]. However, the thermal vias
needed for heat dissipation in multilayer PCBs result in high
case to heat sink thermal resistance ( Rth(c−hs)). Hence such
design approaches are limited to lower power applications. The
presented design approach uses bottom-cooled devices with
insulated metal core substrate (IMS) PCBs (PCB-1 shown in
Fig.10), which offer lowRth(c−hs) for GaN-based high power
block design [14]. This limits the power layout design to a
single-layer PCB, as shown in Fig.10a. The different layers
involved in heat extraction from the bottom-cooled GaN E-
HEMT are shown in Fig.7a. The resulting equivalent thermal
circuit is shown in Fig.7b, and resistances are presented in
Table.III. The thermal conductivity (k), dielectric constant (ϵr),
and thickness of the insulation material in IMS are the key
parameters of selection. The presented design considers a low-
cost di-electric material with k = 3 W/mK, ϵr = 4.8 and
thicknesst = 125µm. This results in estimated PCB thermal
resistance ofRth,P CB1 = 2.92 ◦C/W. The estimated device-
to-ground plane stray capacitance is Cp = 34 pF.
TABLE III: Thermal Parameters selected for simulation
Parameter Value Description
Rth,jc 0.27 ◦C/W Junction-case thermal resistance
Rth,P CB1 2.92 ◦C/W IMS PCB thermal resistance
Rth,grease 0.1 ◦C/W Interface paste thermal resistance
Rth,hs 0.3 ◦C/W Heat sink thermal resistance
Tamb 45 ◦C Ambient temperature
Fig. 8: Parasitic inductances in 3L-ANPC power block
(a) Maximum inner device ( S3)
voltage during 0 → P switching
transient for full mode switching
with short loop inductance (Lst) and
middle bus bar inductance ( Lm).
(b) Design margin for deciding
length and width of the middle bus
bar.
Fig. 9: Impact of parasitic inductances on design of 3L-ANPC
inverter.
C. Power Loop Design
The fast commutation of switches in a GaN-based 3L-
ANPC requires careful attention to parasitic inductances to
avoid device failure due to overvoltage. The key parastic
inductances in the 3L-ANPC are shown in Fig.8. The P, N
and 0 bus bar inductances are denoted as Lp, Ln and Lo
respectively. The source inductance is represented as Ls and
the middle bus bar inductance is shown asLm. The power loop
design shown in Fig.8 is designed with an objective to realize a
minimum short loop inductanceLst. ANSYS Q3D simulation
is used to determine the estimatedLst =Lc+Lp+Lo+2Ls =
6.3 nH. Lst forms the inductance in the commutation path
between outer and clamping switches. The 3L-ANPC power
block is realized as three half-bridge power blocks HFB-1,
HFB-2 and HFB-3 shown in Fig.8. The required vertical ﬂux
cancellation path for enabling lowerLst is realized on the top
side through PCB-2 by use of low proﬁle headers, as shown
in Fig.10a. PCB-2 contains high voltage decoupling capacitors
with high self-resonant frequency ( > 10 MHz) which serve
as nearest charge reservoirs during switching transition to
minimize overshoot. It should be noted that the provision for
device current probing in the prototype design further adds to
the power loop inductance.
The previous discussion has shown that full switching mode
is preferred for high-power 3L-ANPC. In case of full mode
the short loop ( Lst) and long loop ( Llg) operate in parallel
resulting in multi-loop commutation [15]. This can result in
195
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
a high voltage overshoot at S3 during hard-switched turn-on
ofS1 for 0→P operation in full mode. However, turning off
of clamping switch minimizes the overvoltage [15] during the
more severe turn-on transient. During the turn-off operation,
the switches commutate half of the total current and therefore
have a lower overshoot despite a higher inductance. This
modiﬁed form of full-mode operation is used in the LTSPice
simulation results used for analysis. A detailed discussion of
the modiﬁed full mode operation is not considered under the
scope of this paper. The maximum voltage seen across switch
S3 is determined for the two critical hard-switched cases in
0→ P operation - (1) turn-on transient for switch S1 and
(2) synchronous turn-off switching operation ofS5−S3. The
modiﬁed full mode switching operation is used and the results
are presented in Fig.9. The allowable Lm for a given design
Lst can be determined based on acceptable overvoltage stress.
A single layer IMS PCB does not allow the ﬂux cancellation
path design for Lm. Therefore the length and width of the
PCB trace need to be carefully selected for the Lm path.
Fig.9b provides a look-up reference for deciding the length
and width of the PCB trace to ensure that the design margin
for Lm is ensured. Inductance is determined from the PCB
trace dimensions for a selected 4 oz copper thickness. For
the designed, 3L-ANPC power block, Q3D simulation results
estimateLm = 21 nH.
D. Gate Drive Design
The complete gate drive consists of a totem pole stage
and power supply stage formed by PCB stack assembly of
PCB-2 and PCB-3 as shown in Fig.11. PCB-2 ensures a
short and symmetrical gate drive loop for the two parallel
connected GaN devices. Distributed gate and source resistors
Rg,S1a =Rg,S1b = 1 Ωare used to avoid gate ringing between
parallel devices. Commercially available gate driver ICs with
Isource = 3.6 A and Isink = 8 A are selected to enable fast
switching of two parallel GaN devices. The bipolar gate drive
bias voltage of 6 V and −4 V is generated using isolated
DC-DC converters with very low Ciso = 4 pF. The gate
discharge resistance and the anti-series connected zener diodes
for protection are placed very close to the gate-source pads of
the GaN E-HEMT. This ensures a safe gate-source voltage
during switching transients.
III. E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS
The designed GaN-based 3L-ANPC phase leg is shown in
Fig.10. The complete gate drive stage with the decoupling
capacitors is stacked on top of the power layout stage. The
switching performance is evaluated using a double pulse test
for the full switching mode. Preliminary experimental results
of continuous three-phase inverter operation are also presented.
A. Double Pulse Test
The double pulse test (DPT) results with a single GaN
E-HEMT per switch for full switching mode operation are
shown in Fig.12. The gate resistances selected for the DPT
are Ron = 10 Ω, Rof f = 2 Ω, and Rg,S1a = Rs,S1a =
(a) Power layout structure of 3L-ANPC power block with two parallel
650 V, 60 A GaN E-HEMTs.
(b) Hardware image
Fig. 10: 3L-ANPC phase leg with integrated gate drive stage.
Vgg,on
Vgg,off
C1
C2
Fig. 11: Gate driver circuit.
1 Ω. The test results show low overvoltage during turn-on and
turn-off switching transient. The maximum voltage seen atS3
during hard-switched turn-on of S1 is Vds,S3(max)= 415 V.
The maximum voltage seen atS3 during the synchronous turn-
off ofS3−S5 isVds,S3(max) = 446 V. The turn-on switching
loss ofS1 is 310µJ fordi/dt = 4 A/ns anddv/dt = 12 V/ns
at Vdc = 800 V and device current Id = 25 A. Switches S3
and S5 operate synchronously during turn-off with a turn-off
loss of 21µJ across each device.
196
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
(a) Hard-switched turn-on ofS1 dur-
ing 0 → P transition. This results
in overvoltage at S3 and S5 due to
multi-loop commutation.
(b) Hard-switched turn-off ofS3 and
S5 during 0 → P transition.
Fig. 12: Double pulse test (DPT) result for hard-switched0→
P operation with full switching mode operation.
The experimental results show noise-free safe switching
operation of GaN E-HEMTs for 3L-ANPC. The short loop
inductance can be determined from the turn-off switching
transient of S5 as Lst≈ ∆V/(di/dt) = 7.2 nH. This veriﬁes
the low short loop inductance of the design. The placement
of voltage probing points close to drain-source terminals of
GaN E-HEMTs is one of the major hindrances in capturing
the actual device overvoltage waveforms.
B. Three-Level Inverter Test with RL load
Ir, Iy, Ib [Scale:10A/div]
Vyb [Scale:500V/div]
Vr, Vy [Scale:500V/div]
Fig. 13: 3-phase 3L-ANPC test results with RL load ( R =
16.4 Ω andL = 1 mH ).
The experimental results of the three-phase 3L-ANPC in-
verter operation are shown in Fig.13. The results demonstrate
a continuous operation of the inverter at switching frequency
fsw = 70 kHz delivering power Po = 5.1 kW. The DC bus
voltage is at Vdc = 550V , and the fundamental frequency of
the generated AC waveform is fref = 60 Hz.
IV. C ONCLUSION
The key design features of a GaN-based 3L inverter for EV
traction application are presented for 800 V DC bus voltage.
The simulation models estimate the power-delivering ability
of 41 kW for the designed inverter with two parallel GaN E-
HEMTs. Switching mode selection is key in lowering the junc-
tion temperature rise in GaN devices for 3L-ANPC operation.
An IMS-based power layout design of the 3L-ANPC phase
leg further improves the thermal performance to enable high
efﬁciency from GaN E-HEMTs. The design guidelines and the
effect of key parasitic inductances in the power layout structure
are highlighted. The double pulse test results of the designed
3L-ANPC phase leg demonstrate low voltage overshoots at
800 V DC bus and device current of 25 A. Preliminary three-
phase inverter operation is demonstrated at5.1 kW for 70 kHz
switching frequency at 550 V DC.
REFERENCES
[1]I. Aghabali, J. Bauman, P. J. Kollmeyer, Y . Wang, B. Bilgin, and
A. Emadi, “800-v electric vehicle powertrains: Review and analysis of
beneﬁts, challenges, and future trends,” IEEE Transactions on Trans-
portation Electriﬁcation, vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 927–948, 2021.
[2]S. Satpathy, S. Bhattacharya, and V . Veliadis, “Comprehensive loss
analysis of two-level and three-level inverter for electric vehicle using
drive cycle models,” in IECON 2020 The 46th Annual Conference of
the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, 2020, pp. 2017–2024.
[3]X. Huang, B. Jiang, M. N. Alhallak, S. Nategh, Y . Liu, and A. Boglietti,
“Experimental evaluation of conductor insulations used in e-mobility
traction motors,” in 2021 IEEE Workshop on Electrical Machines
Design, Control and Diagnosis (WEMDCD), 2021, pp. 249–253.
[4]J. He, C. Li, A. Jassal, N. Thiagarajan, Y . Zhang, S. Prabhakaran,
C. Feliz, J. E. Graham, and X. Kang, “Multi-domain design optimization
of dv/dt ﬁlter for sic-based three-phase inverters in high-frequency
motor-drive applications,”IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications,
vol. 55, no. 5, pp. 5214–5222, 2019.
[5]H. Kim, A. Anurag, S. Acharya, and S. Bhattacharya, “Analytical study
of sic mosfet based inverter output dv/dt mitigation and loss comparison
with a passive dv/dt ﬁlter for high frequency motor drive applications,”
IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 15 228–15 238, 2021.
[6]R. Teichmann and S. Bernet, “A comparison of three-level converters
versus two-level converters for low-voltage drives, traction, and utility
applications,” IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications , vol. 41,
no. 3, pp. 855–865, 2005.
[7]T. Bruckner, S. Bernet, and H. Guldner, “The active npc converter and
its loss-balancing control,”IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics,
vol. 52, no. 3, pp. 855–868, 2005.
[8]A. Kersten, K. Oberdieck, A. Bubert, M. Neubert, E. A. Grunditz,
T. Thiringer, and R. W. De Doncker, “Fault detection and localization
for limp home functionality of three-level npc inverters with connected
neutral point for electric vehicles,”IEEE Transactions on Transportation
Electriﬁcation, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 416–432, 2019.
[9]S. Song, Reliability of GaN-on-Si High-Electron-Mobility Transistors for
Power Electronics Application. PhD Thesis, Aalborg University, 2018.
[10]Y . Jiao and F. C. Lee, “New modulation scheme for three-level active
neutral-point-clamped converter with loss and stress reduction,” IEEE
Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 62, no. 9, pp. 5468–5479,
2015.
[11]M. Najjar, A. Kouchaki, J. Nielsen, R. Lazar, and M. Nymand, “Design
procedure and efﬁciency analysis of a 99.3hybrid gan/si active neutral
point clamped converter,”IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, pp.
1–1, 2021.
[12] Bottom-side cooled 650V E-mode GaN transistor ,
GaN Systems. [Online]. Available: https://gansystems.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/12/GS66516B-DS-Rev-211025.pdf
[13]E. Gurpinar, F. Iannuzzo, Y . Yang, A. Castellazzi, and F. Blaabjerg,
“Design of low-inductance switching power cell for gan hemt based
inverter,” IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications , vol. 54, no. 2,
pp. 1592–1601, 2018.
[14]“High power ims evaluation platform,” GaN Systems User’s Guide ,
2017.
[15]H. Gui, R. Chen, Z. Zhang, J. Niu, R. Ren, B. Liu, L. M. Tolbert,
F. F. Wang, D. Costinett, B. J. Blalock, and B. B. Choi, “Modeling
and mitigation of multiloops related device overvoltage in three-level
active neutral point clamped converter,” IEEE Transactions on Power
Electronics, vol. 35, no. 8, pp. 7947–7959, 2020.
197
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 