
=== PAGE 1 ===
Development and testing of GaN Power Modules for EV traction in-
verters.
Dima Novo, Adam Briga, Gregory Bunin, Ilia Bunin, Oren Cohen, Joey Chang, Oleg Dubinsky, Alex Firtel, Yuri 
Gitelmakher, Nissim Iskhakbayev, Dieter Liesabeths, Mahsa Montazeri, Memo Romero, Evgeny Rozanov, David 
Shapiro, Lev Stessin, Ray Tsai, Roman Volkov, Valery Veprinsky, Dana Veprinski, Yulia Roiter, Simon Wainwright,
VisIC technologies 
Dima@visic-tech.com
Abstract 
The necessity for affordable long-distance electrical cars is widely recognized. Gallium Nitride (GaN) is an acknowl-
edged semiconductor technology for achieving this target through improved efficiency of the power train inverter.
However, to successfully implement GaN in electric vehicle (EV) inverters, the challenges of high-power delivery must 
be resolved. High power, from a technical perspective, requires the design of high voltage, high current dice, driving in 
parallel of several dice, and maintaining low thermal resistance between the transistor junction and the coolant liquid of 
the inverter cold plate. Using power modules instead of discrete devices is an industry mainstream allowing for signifi-
cantly higher power density. Developing and manufacturing modules with a new semiconductor material, such as GaN, 
and meeting the aggressive demand of carmakers to reduce cost, weight, and size of power modules while increasing 
delivered power calls for extraordinary inventiveness of engineers and well-orchestrated communication between pack-
aging, electronics and semiconductor experts. To efficiently integrate power modules in EV inverters, and meet all the 
requirements stated above, A profound understanding of the trade-offs between different performance parameters and 
size is essential. This work will demonstrate how these challenges have been addressed in VisIC D3GaN power mod-
ules using the methodology of a demonstrator module based on discrete devices and the development of a transfer 
molded power module, based on bare dice. These modules were developed to showcase the D3GaN technology for EV 
traction inverters supporting up to 150kW and a battery voltage of 400V.
1 Introduction
In this paper, we will present our D3GaN power module 
technology demonstrators. The modules are developed to
define main tradeoffs, test and showcase the technology 
for EV traction inverters. D-mode GaN and D3GaN spe-
cifically present several benefits that make it highly suita-
ble for applications that require high power, high reliabil-
ity, and low cost. Fundamentally, fast turn-on and turn-off 
and very low switching losses of GaN devices improve 
application efficiency even at relatively low switching 
frequencies of 20kHz and allow for much higher frequen-
cies when motor technology allows. At the same time, 
gate reliability is a critical requirement for automotive
high-power applications. In the challenge of keeping sim-
ultaneously advantages of GaN and reliable operation at 
high power, D-mode GaN devices show a significant ad-
vantage over E-mode GaN devices. We adopted internally 
developed D3GaN technology, as most suitable for high-
power automotive applications, where “D3” stands for 
Direct Drive D-mode. The gate driver is connected direct-
ly to the GaN Gate which allows utilizing the fast turn-on 
and turn-off times and slew-rate control. D3GaN topology 
is radically different from cascode topology. First, we
present and discuss the technology demonstrator VM022 
Half Bridge power module based on D3GaN 8mOhm dis-
crete devices, which was developed to showcase high 
power operation of 4 parallel devices in a traction inverter 
application. In this paper, we will present the electrical 
and mechanical aspects of the module design and the effi-
ciency test results performed on the dyno closed-loop test 
bench according to the World Harmonized Light Vehicles 
Test Procedure (WLTP).
 Second, we will present the pro-
duction target transfer molded module that is currently in 
development, showcasing high power density and im-
proved thermal resistance. 
2 VM022 D3GaN Power Module 
design
2.1 Module Overview
Fig. 1 shows the VM022 650V, 2mOhm D3GaN Half 
Bridge Power module. The key performance parameters 
are shown in Table I
  
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: VM022 Half Bridge side view

CIPS 2024
ISBN: 978-3-8007-6288-0 © VDE VERLAG GMBH Â Berlin Â Offenbach
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
TABLE I
VM022 Key Performance Parameters
Parameter Value Unit
VDS 650 V
RDS(ON) 2 mΩ
QG 800 nC
ID,pulse 1520 A
ID 460 A
VM022 is a PCB-based Half Bridge module, with 4 paral-
lel D3GaN 8mOhm discrete devices for high and low 
sides, a total of 8 GaN dice. The driving board with con-
nectors to a control board is placed on top of the module.
Gate drivers are located above the devices to reduce the 
gate loop length and inductance. The module block dia-
gram is shown in Fig. 2
 
Figure 2: VM022 Block Diagram
To further reduce the power loop inductance decoupling 
capacitors are integrated on the module PCB.
2.2 Power and Gate loop design considera-
tions 
Power and gate loop inductances have a critical impact on 
system operation. Reducing the parasitic inductances is 
even more important in applications utilizing GaN devic-
es due to their high switching speeds, leading to high 
di/dt. Reducing voltage overshoots, minimizing power 
losses, and EMI. Much attention was put into reducing
power and gate loop inductances, both in the power PCB 
layout, control pin’s location, and driver board PCB lay-
out. The measured power loop inductance is approximate-
ly 3.9nH. To minimize mismatch in time during turn-on
between parallel power devices, special attention was put 
into the design of the power and driver PCBs, ensuring
that the control signals will commutate the devices simul-
taneously. In power loop design we need to make sure 
that the parasitic inductances per device are equal in value
to create even current distribution during switching
events. GaN devices have a positive Ron/Temp coeffi-
cient, i.e. Ron increases with an increase in temperature.
This effect helps to “naturally” balance current between 
parallel devices during ON state. Reduction of power loop 
parasitic inductances is done by 2 methods described in
[1],[2]: 1) reducing the area enclosed by the power loop.
2) using field cancelation techniques. In Fig. 3 you can 
see the power PCB stack-up. In red is the High Frequency 
current path where (1) & (2) are implemented. 
Figure 3: VM022 Power PCB stack-up
2.2.1 Operation of parallel devices
For testing the parallel operation of the GaN devices we 
have developed a special technique utilizing the LV 
MOSFET integrated in the D3GaN platform. By measur-
ing the voltage drop on the MOSFET of parallel devices 
during turn-on, we can verify that the devices turn on 
simultaneously (current flow begins at the same time). In 
Fig. 4,5&6 the voltage spike on the parasitic inductance 
of LV MOSFET during turn-on is shown comparing pairs 
of the 4 parallel devices. In these waveforms, it is easy to 
see that current flow starts simultaneously on the devices
(∆t=2.807nS, at its max, on device #1 the farthest from 
reference device #4) (Blue is the DUT, Gray is the refer-
ence device).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: VM022 LV MOSFET or device #1 compared 
to device #4
 
Figure 5: VM022 LV MOSFET or device #2 compared 
to device #4

CIPS 2024
ISBN: 978-3-8007-6288-0 © VDE VERLAG GMBH Â Berlin Â Offenbach
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
Figure 
6: VM022 LV MOSFET or device #3 compared 
to device #4 
2.3 Thermal stack
As described in the previous sections and figures, the 
VM022 power module uses a multilayer power PCB for 
routing both signal and power traces.   Soldered to one 
side of this PCB are the pre-packaged discrete 8 mOhm
D3GaN devices.  These packages are electrically isolated 
via an internal Aluminum Nitride DBC substrate and are 
then attached to a copper baseplate via a standard solder-
ing process.  The assembly, shown in Fig. 7, is considered 
a typical “baseplate” power module from a thermal stand-
point but uses a combination of wirebonding and PCB 
layers for all interconnections.   
 
Figure 7: VM022 Power PCB, Discrete devices, and the 
baseplate
 
The industry mainstream is to use semiconductor bare die 
directly attached to the DBC and interconnect through 
wire/ribbon bonding or clip connection. While this ap-
proach is optimal for making mass-production products, it 
makes the process of tuning, optimization, or debugging 
of the module design practically impossible. Therefore, we 
used a different approach which allows tuning of the lay-
out and circuit on a “living” technology demonstrator 
module. The primary differen ce is that the pre-packaged 
discrete GaN devices are first assembled and tested to con-
firm the operation, then attached both to the power PCB 
on the terminal side and the baseplate on the DBC side.  
This provides a conventional thermal path to a cooler (typ-
ically liquid cooled), but also a secondary thermal path to 
the power PCB, where some heat, 10% to 15%, can be 
dissipated via the thick copper traces, encapsulation mate-
rials, and surrounding environment.    Fig. 8 depicts the 
complete vertical structure from die to fluid.   
 
Figure 8 VM022 Thermal stack
With this thermal stack, and with typical fluid flow rates 
of 8-10 LPM per inverter, we can expect a thermal re-
sistance of device channel to fluid inlet in the range Rth 
C-
FLUID 0.4 to 0.55 °C/W per die, depending on details of the 
cooler. Some improvements can be made but these must 
be balanced with minimizing mechanical stresses and oth-
er reliability considerations.  
3 WLTC test results
WLTC is a cycle test that is part of WLTP [3] and is a 
globally adopted chassis dynamometer test cycle for the 
determination of emissions and fuel consumption for ICU 
or electric efficiency for EV light-duty vehicles. The test 
was set up in the lab of a major EU car manufacturer. The
set-up included a 3-phase inverter power stage (Fig. 9)
based on a single VM022 module per phase, a dynamome-
ter system with an EV PMSM machine, a DC power sup-
ply, a cooling system, and other auxiliary systems required 
for the operation and measurement during the experiment.

CIPS 2024
ISBN: 978-3-8007-6288-0 © VDE VERLAG GMBH Â Berlin Â Offenbach
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
The whole 3-phase power stage system, including control
and measurement equipment, was designed and assembled 
by the VisIC team. 
Figure 9: VM022 3-phase power stage test system
3.1 WLTP tested conditions:
In Fig. 10 we show the full WLTP test conditions (condi-
tions tested are marked in red). In this experiment, we
tested up to 350ARMS phase current and 2400rpm (electri-
cal frequency of 160Hz).
Figure 10: WLTP Current Vs. RPM
Red dote indicates the maximal tested conditions. The red 
rectangle indicates the area where several data points 
were collected to build a Torque Vs. Efficiency plot (Fig. 
11)
Figure 11 Measured Torque & Efficiency
In this test, we achieved a maximal efficiency of 99.295% 
at 24.4kW output, 2400RPM, and 92.8Nm.
4 D3GaN Transfer Molded Half-
Bridge Module
Following the successful development and testing of the 
VM022 module VisIC took the next step of developing a
transfer-molded Half Bridge module. This module is 
much more compact: 50x30x4mm [LxWxH]. Power ter-
minals are designed for laser welding to reduce power 
loop inductance when connected to busbars, and the mod-
ule is designed for sintering or soldering to a cold plate to 
reduce thermal resistance. The development is a work in 
progress and here we’re presenting preliminary data. 
4.1 Module structure 
For optimal thermal efficiency as well as long-term relia-
bility, the VM027 Module structure is designed for a
straightforward assembly process and transfer molding. 
The module is designed for a direct attachment of the Di-
rect Bonded Copper ceramic substrate (DBC) to the cold
plate, in this design a baseplate is unnecessary, lowering 
the cost and improving the thermal performance. Figure 
12 below shows an exploded view of this design.
Figure 12: Transfer molded module exploded view
One beneficial feature of this structure is that a typical
stamped lead frame is not needed for the power or signal 
terminals.  Instead, low-cost metal injection components 
are used and placed using standard pick-and-place pro-
cesses.  The novel power terminal geometry provides for 
low inductance and allows for laser welding to a system-
level power connection. The fabricated module after 
molding is shown in Figure 13.
Figure 13: Transfer molded module 

CIPS 2024
ISBN: 978-3-8007-6288-0 © VDE VERLAG GMBH Â Berlin Â Offenbach
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
4.1.1 Power and Gate loop design considerations 
The incentive for minimizing power and gate loop induct-
ance is the same as for the VM022 module. The transfer 
molded modules present additional constraints: Smaller 
size and less area for a high cross-section of the power 
conductors. Cancelation layers are also not practical as 
readily available DBC has only a single layer of copper.
Multi-layer DBCs have been long promised but we were 
not able to exercise this path. As mentioned above power 
terminals enable laser welding to busbars, reducing the 
overall power loop inductance. Control pins are located to 
ensure a minimal length of control paths. ANSYS Q3D is 
used for power and gate loop parasitic simulations. Based 
on the simulations the main power loop inductance is 
2.45nH and the gate loop inductance of 6.82nH for the
high side gate and 7.53nH for the low side gate. 
4.1.2 Paralleling of GaN dice
GaN die statistical Vth data as measured on-wafer is 
shown in Fig. 12. (46,004 dice). Narrow Vth spread as-
sists with the paralleling of dice, as the turn-on and turn-
off difference at the same gate voltage is low. Real-life 
operation (as we did with the VM022 module) has not 
been performed yet. 
 
Figure 12: Threshold Voltage Statistics 
4.1.3 Thermal stack
This power module is a DBC based transfer molded pow-
er module that does not utilize a typical copper baseplate,
allowing for direct and thermally efficient attachment to a 
cooler via solder or large area Ag-sinter bonding.   This 
design has many of the same features as other transfer 
molded products suitable for automotive applications, in-
cluding a high-volume production assembly process and 
cost structure. To maintain an acceptable final flatness of 
the substrate and to minimize the stresses on the GaN die
special attention was given to optimize the mechanical 
design, as well as the molding process parameters. For the 
transfer molded module, this has been achieved by careful 
optimization of DBC layout geometry and metal thick-
nesses, mechanical design, die attach material, and mold 
design details. Figure 12 shows this module design.
Power terminals are designed for laser welding, which has 
become the preferred method due to lower costs and the 
elimination of typical electrical contact resistances.  
The substrate is Silicon Nitride (Si3N4) due to its superior 
mechanical strength, compared to AlN, and its increased
acceptance in the power electronics industry.  Without a 
baseplate and associated attachment layer, the thermal 
stack, shown in Figure 13 is further simplified.  Conse-
quently, thermal resistance is also lower, with achievable 
Rth C-FLUID values between 0.3 and 0.5 C/W depending on 
details of the cooler and with flow rates of 8-10 LPM.
Figure 13: Module thermal stack
The DBC metal thickness in this design is 300uM, much 
thicker than in the VM022 demonstrator, primarily be-
cause this layer must handle the full current load directly 
on the substrate. A benefit of this approach is more heat
spreading, where there is space around the GaN device. 
The Si3N4 ceramic is thinner than AlN to compensate for 
the lower thermal conductivity value. 
4.2 Multi Pulse Test setup & Preliminary 
Results
For dynamic evaluation of the module, we are using a
multi-pulse test. After module fabrication and testing that 
the module is electrically operational, a multi-pulse test 
set-up is assembled using a dedicated evaluation board,
developed for the module by VisIC team, and providing 
all the necessary control signals. A 1-GHz high band-
width oscilloscope and high accuracy optical differential 
probes are used to measure Drain-Source and Gate signals 
with minimal distortion. The test set up is shown in Fig. 
14. The module is located at the bottom of the EVB. 

CIPS 2024
ISBN: 978-3-8007-6288-0 © VDE VERLAG GMBH Â Berlin Â Offenbach
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
Figure 14: Multi-pulse test setup.
At this early stage of the development, the purpose of the 
testing is to verify the stability of the switching, evaluate 
the power loop parasitic inductances, and measure switch-
ing energy and additional parameters that are critical for 
making improvements for the next revision. In Fig. 15 the 
half bridge mid-point to ground voltage and the coil cur-
rent were captured. In this test bus voltage is 400V, coil 
current was up to 200A. 
Figure 15: – Transfer molded HB module multi-pulse 
waveform
The measured power loop inductance is 8nH (including 
busbars and power capacitor), this measurement indicates 
a high inductance of the connection between the DC link 
capacitor and the module. 
Switching Energy measurements are next in line, after 
finishing the initial optimization of the switching behav-
ior. 
5D 3GaN Driving Circuit and it’s 
implementation with D3GaN 
Power Modules.
D3GaN schematic is shown in Fig. 16 and includes: 1) D-
mode GaN die, 2)LV MOSFET die,  3) pn Diode. In this 
example, the GaN and P-MOSFET die are connected in 
series Source to Source. The pn diode is connected be-
tween the GaN Gate and the Drain of the LV MOSFET. 
Figure 16:– D
3GaN Schematics
The LV MOSFET is in conductive mode all the time 
driver is present, and not playing a role in the switching of 
the GaN die. Fig. 17 & 18 show the simplified gate drive 
and MOSFET enables circuit schematics. The gate of the 
MOSFET is connected to a dedicated enable circuitry. 
Enable signal turns the MOSFET to ON state when the 
auxiliary power supply turns ON and stays ON as long as 
the auxiliary power is above the Under Voltage Lockout 
(UVLO) Level. If the auxiliary power supply voltage lev-
el drops below the UVLO, the MOSFET turns OFF and 
allows for a safe turn-off of the GaN die. 
Figure 17: – D
3GaN Driving Circuit Schematics – ON
state
Driving of the D3GaN
Standard off-the-shelve gate drivers are used for driving a 
D3GaN and are connected to the GaN Gate (sizing of the 
gate driver is done in the same way as for SiC or IGBT 
power devices). There is no need in inverting or changing 
the driver input PWM signal. The difference in the 
D3GaN driving circuit is that the GaN die Kelvin Source
is connected to the auxiliary power supply (VDD) instead 
of GND . This allows for switching the GaN Gate be-
tween VDD and GND potentials, while GaN Source is 
hardwired to VDD.
Optical probes
Control 
PCB
Inductor
D
3
GaN Schematics

CIPS 2024
ISBN: 978-3-8007-6288-0 © VDE VERLAG GMBH ÂBerlin ÂOffenbach
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
Figure 18: – D3GaN Driving Circuit Schematics – OFF
stat.
For Turn OFF the GaN V GS = GND – VDD = -VDD (Fig. 
18), and ON when VGS =V D D– VDD = 0.
For implementing the D3GaN inside a module. it is re-
quired to have the GaN and Si MOSFET on the substrate 
for cooling, while all the other components can be imple-
mented on the Gate drive PCB.
D3GaN utilizes the benefits of a more robust D-mode 
GaN device with highly reliable gate structure without the 
added switching losses of the Si MOSFET.
6L i t e r a t u r e
[1] Eric Persson: Optimizing PCB Layout for HV GaN 
Power Transistors.IEEE Power Electronics Maga-
zine, Vol. 10, No.2 June 2023.
[2] Juncheng(Lucas) Lu: Paralleling GaN E-HEMTs in 
10kW-100kW Systems, 2017 IEEE Applied Power 
Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC).
[3] https://dieselnet.com/standards/cycles/wltp.php

CIPS 2024
ISBN: 978-3-8007-6288-0 © VDE VERLAG GMBH ÂBerlin ÂOffenbach
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:20:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 