
=== PAGE 1 ===
978-88-87237-55-9 ©2022 AEIT 
GaN-Based Low-V oltage Inverter for Electric 
Scooter Drive System  
 
 
Salvatore Musumeci  
DENERG-PEIC 
Politecnico di Torino 
Torino, Italy 
salvatore.musumeci@polito.it 
 
Vincenzo Barba 
DENERG-PEIC 
Politecnico di Torino 
Torino, Italy  
vincenzo.barba@polito.it 
Marco Palma 
Director, Motor Drive Systems and 
Applications 
Efficient Power Conversion 
Torino, Italy 
marco.palma@epc-co.com 
 
Abstract — The paper deals with the application of the latest 
generation low voltage (up to 80V) Gallium Nitride (GaN) 
devices for motor drive applications in the field o f electric 
micro-mobility. A two-level inverter topology orien ted to light 
electric traction (such as electric scooters) with a power rate of 
1500W has been considered. An experimental board us ing two 
GaN FETs in parallel connection for each switch of an inverter 
leg has been arranged. The intrinsic parameters spr ead of the 
device, as well as the leakage inductances of both the circuit and 
the PCB,  to evaluate the impact on the current sha re during 
both the transient phase and in the steady state ha ve been 
investigated. In the paper, several simulation runs  have been 
carried out and described. Furthermore, the inverte r 
experimental board has been used to evaluate the phase voltages 
and currents at different load conditions. Finally,  the 
temperature limits versus phase current variation h ave been 
evaluated.  
Keywords—GaN FET, Inverter, Parallel Connection, Mic ro-
mobility. 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
In city transport, electric scooters (e-Scooter) ar e 
affordable for sustainable mobility with zero CO 2 emissions, 
drivability with heavy traffic, and parking in a li mited space. 
E-Scooters belong to the micro-mobility market whic h is 
expected to reach  214.57 billion $ by 2030 [1]. Mi cro-
mobility is a variegated and not yet standardized e lectric 
mobility scenario, made up of several relatively small battery-
powered vehicle systems with autonomy ranges depending on 
many factors, such as weight, maximum torque, speed , 
number of people to move, safety, and cost [2]. 
Light electric vehicles (EV) such as E-kick scooter s, e-
Bikes, Skateboards, Hoverboards, Low-Speed EVs, Segways, 
Mopeds, and e-Scooters are some examples that we ca n 
currently find in our cities both as private vehicl es as well as 
in the new sharing availability. A general block schematic of 
battery storage and electric propulsion system for Light EVs 
is depicted in Fig. 1. Nowadays, the battery storag e pack 
solution in several applications for micro-mobility  is 
composed of Lithium-based batteries [3]. The battery storage 
pack is managed by the Battery Management System (BMS).  
The voltage rate of the battery pack is in the range of 24 V, up 
to 120 V. The Energy rate average capacities are between 150 
Wh and 750 Wh, but some expensive scooters and disa bled-
people four-wheel e-Scooters feature storage batter y packs 
with much more energy density. 
The propulsion system is composed first of an elect ric 
motor, generally a DC brushless for a strictly econ omic or 
permanent magnetic sinusoidal motor (PMSM) for more  
qualitative movement applications [4]. The power el ectronic 
converter is a two-level three-phase inverter topol ogy. The 
switching modulation strategy is driven by an elect ronic 
control unit (ECU) linked with the BMS and the moto r 
parameters feedback to obtain the torque and speed control 
requested.  
The technology of the power switches is crucial to obtain 
an efficient and reliable inverter system. The pure  Silicon 
MOSFETs are currently used in the typical power ran ge of 
hundreds of Watt up to a few kW for storage battery  pack 
voltage rate below 200 V [5]. In recent years, High Electronic 
Mobility Transistor (HEMT) based on Gallium Nitrate (GaN) 
is introduced in application involving the considered range of 
power and voltage rate. The GaN FET devices are mor e 
attractive with several enhancements compared with the low 
voltage new generation of pure silicon trench-gate MOSFET 
[6].   
 
Fig. 1.  Electric Storage and Propulsion scheme of Light Ele ctric Vehicles 
such as an e-Scooter.Where M is a generic electric motor, T is the 
transmission box, and W is the moving wheel. 
In the paper, a 60 V, 1500W two-level inverter topo logy 
based on low voltage GaN FET is evaluated. The inve rter 
topology solution is suitable for a high-efficiency inverter for 
a high-performance e-Scooter drive application. To reach the 
switching leg current requested (35 Arms), two devi ces are 
paralleled for each high-side and low-side legs switches. It is 
worth investigating the parallel connection of GaN FET 
devices to understand how to obtain switches with a  high 
operating current. The paper is structured as descr ibed in the 
following. In the second section, a parallel connection and the 
link with the technological issues are explored.  
In the third section, a simulation investigation in LTSpice 
is carried out to evaluate the current and voltage sharing in the 
two paralleled connected GaN devices. Furthermore, the 
circuit and device stray inductances are considered. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:17:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
In the fourth section, an experimental evaluation i s 
presented and discussed. 
Finally, in the last section, the conclusion and th e future 
works are highlighted. 
II.  PARALLEL CONNECTION AND TECHNOLOGIC ISSUES 
OF GAN FET  DEVICES  
The GaN FET switches considered are enhancement-
mode devices. The HEMT is a planar structure with h igh 
electron mobility due to a two-dimensional electron  gas 
(2DEG)  found at the interface between an AlGaN and  GaN 
heterostructure interface [7]. The GaN FET has a p-type GaN 
layer used to make a normally-off enhancement-mode device. 
In Fig. 2a the structure of an enhancement-mode GaN FET is 
depicted. The devices considered in this paper feat ure a 
breakdown voltage until 200V. The low voltage appli cations 
at high switching frequency (until tens of MHz) are the typical 
field of operation in high-performance DC-DC or DC- AC 
converters [8], [9].  The GaN FET is a bidirectional device as 
a MOSFET one [10]. The operation in the first and t hird 
quadrant is obtained by a positive voltage polariza tion of the 
Gate-Source (5 V). At zero voltage across Gate-Sour ce, the 
reverse conduction in a GaN FET is similar to a diode with a 
voltage drop higher than a body diode of a MOSFET [11]. In 
Reverse conduction, the equivalent diode of the GaN  FET 
does not show a reverse recovery charge Q rr .  Encapsulation 
in the device package plays a key role in achieving  low 
leakage inductances. The structure of the actual package with 
Solder Bars is reported in Fig. 2b. The GaN FETs ar e high-
density current devices with a direct conduction re sistance 
RDS(on)  with a positive temperature coefficient (Fig. 2c) like a 
power MOSFET [7].  
  
 
Fig. 2.  a) Physical structure of an enhancement-mode GaN FET. b) Packed 
GaN FET with the solder bars in the low side device . c) Normalized 
RDS(on) for an EPC2065 GaN FET versus the temperature at I D=25 A, 
VGS =5 V. 
The positive temperature coefficient allows a viabl e way 
to realize a high current switch by the parallel co nnection of 
several GaN FETs. Generally, the current imbalance in 
parallel connection is caused by the device paramet ers 
mismatch and the printed circuit board (PCB) design choices 
[6]. The RDS(on) spread affects the on-state current distribution 
among the parallel-connected switches. Furthermore,  the 
thermal differences between the devices lead to a different on-
state current sharing too. The paralleled devices should be in 
similar thermal conditions with the same thermal re sistance 
and in a common heat-sink arrangement. In switching  
operations, the trans-conductance (g m) influences the turn-on 
and turn-off dynamic current sharing. However, in i nsulated 
gate devices, the main parameter involved in the cu rrent 
difference during the transient behavior is the thr eshold 
voltage V TH  as discussed in [5]. A lower V TH  results in an 
earlier turn-on featuring a high current peak with consequently 
high switching power loss. A V TH  typical value at 5 mA is 
equal to 1.4V. Furthermore, the threshold voltage is relatively 
constant when increasing temperature, while in Si M OSFET 
the V TH  curve declines more rapidly [7]. Further factors 
affecting the parallel connection are the device pa ckage 
parasitic inductance and PCB layout parasitic inductance.  The 
device package inductances are related to the packa ge 
solution. As described in Fig. 2b, the device package features 
several drains and source paths to reduce the stray inductance. 
Furthermore, Chip Scale Package (CSP) and quad-flat  no-
leads (QFN) package solution lead to a suitable red uction in 
the parasitic inductances. These effects will be de eper 
described in the next section. 
III.  CURRENT SHARING EVALUATION IN PARALLELED GAN 
FET  DEVICES  
In this section, the problems that arise when conne cting 
more GaN FETs in parallel are investigated. To achi eve the 
purpose of the paper, several simulations are carried out using 
the LTspice software. In this work, a symmetrical t opology 
consisting of two GaN FET connected in parallel, na med A 
and B, is considered. It is shown in Fig.3. 
 
 
Fig. 3.  Two GaN FETs in parallel connection with symmetrica l 
arrangement. Parasitic impedances of connection lines are considered. 
In Fig.3 the parasitic impedances of the gate R G LG, of the 
source R S L S, and of the drain R D L D are indicated with the 
subscript _A or _B depending on which device they r efer to. 
No subscripts are used for indicating the common impedance 
at the source and the drain of the connected device s.  
indicates the gate resistance and its value is 10 Ω  for every 
GaN FET. The value of the gate resistance is chosen to have a 
slew rate drop (95%-5%) of 5 V/ns which is good for a motor 
drive application. 
The GaN FET model used in the simulations is obtain ed 
from the basic model of a typical MOSFET, and it ha s been 
modified to best represent the device operation, in cluding its 
internal parasitic effects [12]. 
The driving signals are sent synchronously to every  
device. The driving voltage  has been set as a 5 V square 
waveform voltage source with rise time and fall time equal to 
0.1 ns and with a duty cycle of 0.5. The switching frequency 
is 10 kHz, but GaN FET technology can work with a switching 
frequency up to 1 MHz. Anyway, in this study, the v alue of 
the switching frequency is irrelevant because the commutation 
transients are not related to its value. The load is modeled as a  
current source  . It provides 40 A, and according to that, 
each GaN FET conducts a drain current of 20 A.  The power 
Vload 
Iload 
RG BRG A
ID a 
GaN FET BGaN FET A
LG BLG A
RD ALD A RD BLD B
LS B
RS B
RS
LS
RS A
LS A∼ ∼Vd A Vd b 
ID B
RD
LD
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:17:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
system works with a DC load voltage of  	 48 . An 
ideal freewheel diode is connected in parallel with  the load 
current source. 
At first, simulations to study the effects of paras itic 
impedances of the PCB are presented. Subsequently, the study 
continues with simulations focusing on the effects caused by 
parameter spreads between GaN FETs connected in par allel. 
These effects are analyzed one at a time individually. 
A.  Effects induced by PCB parasitic components 
The first parasitic components of the PCB to be studied are 
the common source impedances. In the circuit in Fig .4, only 
the parasitic source components are considered and they have 
values  	 7.5  ,  	 5 Ω,  	 6  ,  	 5 Ω. 
Due to the symmetry of parallel devices considered,  all 
waveforms of electrical variables are equal between  devices. 
Therefore, those of a generic n th  GaN FET are considered.  
Table 1 reports the slow rates ∆IDn /∆t from 10% to 90% of 
the conduction value of the drain current and the duration of 
the drain current commutation in the cases with a non-null and 
null common source impedance  . 
   
   
turn-on 
Δ  !" #  
turn-on 
 
   
turn-off 
Δ  !" #  
turn-off 
$ 0 136 .46 ⋅ 10 ) 148 *112 ,66 ⋅ 10 ) 180 
	 0 6.343 ⋅ 10 - 6 *6,511 ⋅ 10 - 5 
Table 1 Slow rates ±10% and duration of the drain current transients: with 
and without common source impedance   
The main effect of the common source impedance is t o 
slow down the drain current transition. This means that the 
whole switching process will last longer and the en ergy 
dissipated increases. 
A simulation considering the two GaN FET in paralle l 
connection and having both an equal parasitic gate inductance 
is performed. Typically, the leakage inductances can be caused 
by the length of the gate wires. The values of   	 10 nH  and 
  	 0.1 Ω are considered. The waveforms of the drain 
current, the gate-source voltage, and the drain-source voltages 
of a GaN FET in parallel connection with parasitic source 
impedance are shown in Fig.4. The turn-on and turn-off 
commutations are depicted in Fig.4a and Fig.4b respectability. 
Fig.4 shows that there is the phenomenon of gate ri nging. 
It results from the connection of gate inductance t o the 
capacitance forming a resonant circuit. During the turn-off 
commutation, a false turn-on happens when the gate- source 
voltage surpasses the threshold level. To avoid thi s 
phenomenon L G/L S must be equalized and kept as low as 
possible. Using a proper gate resistance to source resistance 
ratio (R G/R S) reduces the gate ringing phenomenon, 
dampening the system. To avoid the ringing phenomenon, the 
gate resistance value must be bigger than the value expressed 
in (1) [7]. 
  	 2 ⋅0
12314
542 
 (1) 
Furthermore, the operative condition of two GaN FET s in 
parallel connection with only parasitic drain imped ance is 
considered. The parasitic component values used in the 
simulation are 6 	 0.1  , 6 	 5 Ω, 6 	 0.1   
Again, the symmetrical topology of the PCB considered as a 
hypothesis makes the current and voltage waveforms of 
devices equal. The waveforms of the drain current, the gate-
source voltage, and the drain-source voltages of a GaN FET in 
parallel connection with parasitic drain impedance are shown 
in Fig.5a and Fig.5b for turn-on and turn-off respe ctability. 
Similarly, in the case of parasitic gate impedance,  a ringing 
phenomenon occurs. It is most evident during the tu rn-off 
commutation. The inductances in the power loop gene rate 
higher frequency current and drain voltage fluctuations. They 
increase the voltage overshoot across the device an d may 
cause voltage breakdown of the device. These are damped by 
the parasitic resistance and in the considered case they cancel 
out in approximately 140 ns. Differently from the p arasitic 
gate impedance case, the gate-source voltage does n ot differ 
from the ideal situation without parasitic componen ts. To 
reduce the ringing phenomenon, a reduced value of p ower 
loop leakage inductance must be achieved by an accu rate 
layout design of the PCB. 
 
 
Fig. 4.  Drain current in red, drain-source voltage in light  blue, and gate-
source voltage in magenta of a generic n GaN FET co nnected in 
parallel with parasitic gate impedance – low R G case: (a) turn-on ; (b) 
turn-off. Time step=20 ns/div, I=3 A/div, V=6 V/div. 
B.  Effects induced by parametric spread of parallel-
connected devices 
Simulations where two EPC2065 (furnished by Efficie nt 
Power Conversion - EPC 
®) GaN FETs, named A and B, 
having a spread of one parameter are connected in parallel are 
carried out. No parasitic components are present in  the 
topology of the system. The first parameter spread to be 
analyzed is the value of the device gain. One device may have 
a transconductance gain that is slightly different from that of 
another device. For example, this can be caused by 
manufacture mismatching, because materials coming f rom 
different batches are used to make the switching de vices. 
Transconductance gain is defined as 
 
78 	 9 6/9  (2)  
Acting on the GaN model parameter, device A has been 
modified to have a 10% reduced gain compared to dev ice B. 
Both devices are driven with the same drive voltage to supply 
a 40 A load current. The gate-source voltage wavefo rm 
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:17:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
remains congruent for both GaN FETs, but a differen ce in 
drain current value is present.  
The waveforms of the drain currents carried by the A and 
B devices and their gate-source voltage are depicted in Fig.6a 
for the turn-on and in Fig.6b for the turn-off.  The gain spread 
makes the current of the GaN FET B with higher gain to show 
rise and fall times stepper than GaN FET A during 
commutations. However, no huge current peak phenome na 
are experienced during commutations because both de vices 
reach the conduction current value (after the turn-on) and null 
current values (after turn-off) at the same time. D uring the 
conduction phase, a current spread between the two devices is 
present. It is proportional to the difference in gain.  
 
Fig. 5.  Drain current in red, drain-source voltage in light  blue and gate-
source voltage in magenta of a generic n GaN FET co nnected in 
parallel with parasitic drain impedance: (a) turn-on ; (b) turn-off. Time 
step=20 ns/div, I=3 A/div, V=6 V/div. 
The conduction resistance 6;< determines the voltage 
drop across the device and in GaN FET technology it s value 
increases proportionally with junction-to-ambient 
temperature. The operative condition in which the G aN FET 
B has the typical value of conduction resistance  
6;< 	
2.2 Ω and the GaN FET A has a grown +20% 6;< value is 
investigated. Fig.7 shows the waveforms of the gate -source 
voltage and the drain current provided by the two GaN FET in 
parallel connection.  The zooms on turn-on and turn -off 
commutations are depicted in Fig.7a and Fig.7b respectability. 
The spread of the conduction resistance influences the current 
distribution only in the conduction time interval. The device 
with lower resistance (B) conducts more current. The current 
spread is proportional to the load current amplitud e and the 
difference in conduction resistance of the two devices (it is 2 
A in the considered case). However, no differences in the 
drain currents are present during commutations. If the spread 
is too large, joule losses could cause the device t o heat up 
beyond the maximum permissible junction temperature .  
Likely the MOSFET thermal behavior, GaN FET conduction 
resistance has a positive temperature coefficient. It causes the 
hottest device to provide less current and decrease its losses. 
Thus, the temperature coefficient trend equilibrate s the 
6;< and drain current spreads. 
Threshold voltage =>  is the minimum gate-source 
voltage needed to turn on enhancement mode transistors. Fig.8 
shows the gate-source voltage and the drain current  
waveforms of two parallel-connected GaN FETs. GaN FET A 
has => ? 	 0.7    and GaN FET B has => @ 	 1.7 . 
These values come from a ±0.5 V spread from the typ ical 
value declared of manufacturing. Fig.8a and Fig.8b show the 
turn-on and turn-off commutations respectability. W hen 
devices are connected in parallel, their =>  spread leads the 
GaN FET with lower threshold voltage to be turned on earlier 
and turned off later (GaN FET A in this example). Looking at 
Fig.8, the parallel connection makes the gate-sourc e voltage 
waveforms almost congruent. 
 
Fig. 6.  Gate-source voltage of A and B GaN FETs in red, dra in current of 
the A GaN FET in green, drain current of the B GaN FET in blue – 
gm(A)=90% g m(B): (a) turn-on ; (b) turn-off. Time step=20 ns/div, I=3 
A/div, V=0.5 V/div. 
 
Fig. 7.  Gate-source voltage of A and B GaN FETs in red, dra in current of 
the A GaN FET in green, drain current of the B GaN FET in blue – in 
blue – R DS(on) (A) = 120% R DS(on) (B): (a) turn-on ; (b) turn-off. Time 
step=20 ns/div, I=3 A/div, V=0.5 V/div. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:17:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
Overcurrent on the device with lower V TH  during 
commutations are caused by these switching gaps and  are 
stopped only when all the devices are in the same conduction 
state. The current peak increases the commutation l osses of 
the most stressed device and they must be considere d for the 
GaN FET thermal stability. A small current spread r emains 
during the conduction phase because V TH  influences the 
device transconductance characteristic. From simula tions 
results, arises that the V TH  spread is the most critical parameter 
to consider when paralleling GaN FETs. For this rea son, the 
maximum current peak must be lower than the pulse 
capability of the device. In this case of studying, the EPC2065 
is ruggedness up to a continuous current of 60 A and transients 
peak of 215 A for 300 μs. Compared with MOSFET devi ces 
GaN FETs in parallel connection need an accurate la yout 
design to symmetrize the power routes to avoid further current 
and voltage peaks due to the asymmetric stray inductances [7]. 
 
Fig. 8.  Gate-source voltage of A GaN FETs in red, Gate-sour ce voltage of 
B GaN FETs in light blue, drain current of the A Ga N FET in green, 
drain current of the B GaN FET in blue – => ? 	 0.7 ,=> @ 	 1.7 : 
(a) turn-on ; (b) turn-off. Time step=20 ns/div, I=4 A/div, V=0.5 V/div. 
IV.  EXPERIMENTAL  EVALUATION OF A PARALLELED 
GAN BASED INVERTER  
The Inverter board schematic is reported in Fig. 9.  The 
GaN FETS used as switches are the EPC2065 eGaN FET 3.6 
mΩ maximum R DS(on) , 80 V of the drain-to-source maximum 
voltage. The experimental board uses two paralleled  GaN 
FETs per switch in the inverter legs and it can deliver up to 50 
Apk (35 ARMS ) per phase. The experimental board supports a 
complete motor drive inverter application for a Brushless DC 
motor (BLDC) or permanent magnet synchronous motor 
(PMSM) including gate drivers, regulated auxiliary power 
rails, voltage, and temperature sense, accurate cur rent sense 
both for phase current and for switching leg curren t. The use 
of the two types of sensing approach for the current sampling 
points detection in the field-oriented control (FOC) strategy is 
deeper described in [13]. Furthermore, an overcurre nt 
protection function is built-in into the current sensing circuit. 
The protection strategy is settled to turn off the devices when 
the maximum current in the three phases exceeds 50 A.  A 
suitable interface to connect the inverter board wi th various 
microcontroller units is developed too.   
A.  Temperature Evaluation 
The temperature information is a crucial key parameter to 
evaluate the limits of the use of the inverter boar d. The 
temperature is detected by a suitable sensing silicon integrated 
circuit temperature transducer (AD590). The devices  
temperature is obtained by reading an analog voltag e V 
Temp  
proportional to the temperature, located on the bot tom of the 
board, using the following equation. 
A 	 B
CDEFG ∙IJJJ 
K.LK M * 273.16 !°O#   (3) 
To demonstrate the temperature transducer effectiveness a 
characterization was carried out. A test without a heatsink and 
with only natural convection cooling is leaded. The measured 
temperature by the onboard temperature sensor place d 
beneath the phase b GaN FETs on the bottom side of the PCB 
is compared with the infra-red camera pointed towards the die 
case temperature for the same GaN FETs. The graph i n Fig.  
10 shows the satisfactory correlation between the m easured 
temperature by the infra-red camera and the transdu cer 
temperature evaluation. 
. 
 
Fig. 9.  Inverter board schematic with a driver circuit, current sensing, over-
current protection, and temperature detection circuit.  
 
Fig. 10.  The infra-red camera temperature measurement on the  GaN FET 
case (Y-axis) versus the temperature transducer evaluation (X-axis).  
The thermal performance of the inverter board is depicted 
in Fig. 11. The motor drive (BLDC motor) is designe d for a 
48 V DC  supply and operates with and without heatsink at 
natural convection. The tested phase current is 25 ARMS  at two 
switching frequencies (50kHz and 100kHz). The temperature 
increase ( ∆T) compared with the ambient temperature 
(T amb =25.5 °C) is reported in Fig. 11 versus the phase current 
amplitude variation. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:17:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
  
Fig. 11.  The ∆T temperature versus the current variation at 50 kH z and 100 
kHz without and with heatsink.  
B.  Switching operation 
The switching results regarding the output voltage and 
current of the phase a of the inverter circuit (Fig . 9). The 
experimental tests have been carried out at V 
dc =48 V and 
Iapeak =50 A. In Fig. 13 both the output current and volta ge of 
the phase a are reported.  In Fig. 12a the phase cu rrent I a and 
the modulation voltage V am  are reported at motor frequency 
operation. In the zoomed view the switching phase voltage V a 
and the phase current I a are shown.  
 
Fig. 12.  Experimental waveforms at V dc =48V and I apeak =50A, fsw =100kHz. 
Va=20v/div, I a=20A/div, a) t=50ms/dv, b) zoomed view t=10 µs.  
In Fig. 13 the switching transient at turn-off (Fig . 13a) of 
the phase voltage (phase a) is shown with the current Ia at the 
peak value. The turn-on voltage (Va) transient is r eported in 
Fig. 13b.  
 
Fig. 13.  Phase voltage transient waveforms at Vdc=48V and Ia peak=50A, 
fsw=100kHz., dead-time tdt=50ns. Va=20v/div, Ia=20A /div, 
t=50ns/dv.  
V.  CONCLUSIONS  
In the paper, a two-level low-voltage inverter topology for 
light electric traction (such as electric scooter) based on GaN 
FET switches in parallel connection has been evalua ted and 
discussed. The dynamic current mismatching is mainly caused 
by the difference in V TH . Several experimental tests concerned 
the thermal behavior at different switching frequen cy are 
carried out. Finally, the switching frequency behav ior of the 
output voltage and current related at one phase at a maximum 
rated current of 50 A are reported. In future work,  a high 
current switch with several GaN FETs in parallel co nnection 
will be investigated. 
REFERENCES  
[1]  Report Buyer. Personal Mobility Devices Market-Glob al Industry 
Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends, and Forecast , 2019–2027. 
Available online: 
https://www.reportbuyer.com/product/4142781/personal-mobility-
devices-market-global-industry-analysissize-share-growth-trends-and-
forecast-2019-2027.html?utm_source=PRN (accessed on  01 August 
2022). 
[2]  G. Aiello, S. Quaranta, A. Certa, and R. Inguanta. "Optimization of 
Urban Delivery Systems Based on Electric Assisted Cargo Bikes with 
Modular Battery Size, Taking into Account the Servi ce Requirements 
and the Specific Operational Context" Energies 14, no. 15: 4672. 
2021,https://doi.org/10.3390/en14154672. 
[3]  Gangchul Kim, Chongpyo Cho, Youngdug Pyo and Wookhy un Lee, 
"The development of stand-alone battery pack for micro mobility EV," 
2016 IEEE Transportation Electrification Conference and Expo, Asia-
Pacific (ITEC Asia-Pacific), 01-04 June 2016, Busan , Korea (South), 
pp. 874-876, doi: 10.1109/ITEC-AP.2016.7513073.. 
[4]  M. Yildirim, M. Polat and H. Kürüm, "A survey on co mparison of 
electric motor types and drives used for electric v ehicles," 2014 16th 
International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference and 
Exposition, 21-24 Sept. 2014,  Antalya, Turkey, pp. 218-223, doi: 
10.1109/EPEPEMC.2014.6980715. 
[5]  S. Musumeci, F. Scrimizzi, F. Fusillo, R. Bojoi, G.  Longo, and C. 
Mistretta, “Low voltage high current trench-gate MOSFET inverter for 
belt starter generator applications,” in Proc. AEIT  Int. Conf. Elect. 
Electron. Technol. Automot. (AEIT Automot.), Torino, Italy, 2019, pp. 
1–6, doi: 10.23919/EETA.2019.8804598. 
[6]  S. Musumeci, F. Mandrile, V. Barba, and M. Palma, “ Low-Voltage 
GaN FETs in Motor Control Application; Issues and A dvantages: A 
Review.” In Energies 2021, 14, 6378, 
https://doi.org/10.3390/en14196378. 
[7]  A. Lidow, M. De Rooij, J. Strydom, D. Reusch, J. Gl aser. GaN 
Transistors for Efficient Power Conversion, 3rd ed. ; John Wiley & 
Sons: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2019. 
[8]  E. Armando, F. Fusillo, S. Musumeci and F. Scrimizzi, "Low Voltage 
Trench-Gate MOSFETs for High Efficiency Auxiliary P ower Supply 
Applications," 2019 International Conference on Clean Electrical 
Power (ICCEP) , 2019, pp. 165-170, doi: 
10.1109/ICCEP.2019.8890217. 
[9]  S. Buonomo et al., "Driving a New Monolithic Cascod e Device in a 
DC–DC Converter Application," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial 
Electronics , vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 2439-2449, June 2008, doi: 
10.1109/TIE.2008.921655. 
[10]  S. Musumeci, M. Panizza, F. Stella and F. Perraud, "Monolithic 
Bidirectional Switch Based on GaN Gate Injection Tr ansistors," 2020 
IEEE 29th International Symposium on Industrial Ele ctronics (ISIE) , 
17-19 June 2020,  Delft, Netherlands pp. 1045-1050, doi: 
10.1109/ISIE45063.2020.9152230. 
[11]  K. Kruse, M. Elbo and Z. Zhang, "GaN-based high eff iciency 
bidirectional DC-DC converter with 10 MHz switching  frequency," 
2017 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition 
(APEC), 26-30 March 2017,  Tampa, FL, USA, pp. 273-278, doi: 
10.1109/APEC.2017.7930705. 
[12]  Yan, Dong, Lijun Hang, Yuanbin He, Zhen He, and Pin gliang Zeng. 
2022. "An Accurate Switching Transient Analytical M odel for GaN 
HEMT under the Influence of Nonlinear Parameters" Energies 15, no. 
8: 2966. https://doi.org/10.3390/en15082966. 
[13]  S. Musumeci, M. Palma, F. Mandrile and V. Barba, "L ow-Voltage 
GaN Based Inverter for Power Steering Application,"  2021 AEIT 
International Conference on Electrical and Electron ic Technologies 
for Automotive (AEIT AUTOMOTIVE) , 17-19 Nov. 2021, Torino, Italy, 
pp. 1-6, doi: 10.23919/AEITAUTOMOTIVE52815.2021.9662703. 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:17:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 