
=== PAGE 1 ===
GaN Module Design Recommendations Based on the 
Analysis of a Commercial 3-Phase GaN Module
John Alex Brothers  
Mainstream Engineering Corporation 
200 Yellow Place 
Rockledge, Florida, Brevard, 32955 
jbrothers@mainstream-engr.com 
 
Troy Beechner 
Mainstream Engineering Corporation 
200 Yellow Place 
Rockledge, Florida, Brevard, 32955 
tbeechner@mainstream-engr.com 
Abstract—In this paper, a detailed analysis of a commercial 3-
phase, 100 V, 270 A (per phase) GaN module is presented.  A high 
frequency parasitic circuit model was derived for the module, 
which was simulated to demonstrate a unique sensitivity of low 
voltage GaN modules: its susceptibility to VDS overshoot at hard 
turn-off switching transients due to large currents, fast GaN 
switching, large package parasitics, and low V DS overshoot 
margins of 100 V rated dies.  Hardware double pulse test (DPT) 
results confirmed this when the commercial module experienced 
premature failure due to VDS overshoot when hard switched at 
36% of its current rating.  Module design layout recommendations 
are provided based on an analysis of the commercial GaN 
module’s layout (using 3D electromagnetic software) as well as 
GaN module layouts from existing literature.  The paper concludes 
with hardware DPT results of a custom 100 V, 360 A GaN module.  
The hardware was successfully hard switched at 375 A, 
demonstrating the feasibility of low voltage (≤ 100 V), high current 
(> 300 A) GaN modules capable of hard switching at their die 
current ratings.   
Keywords—Gallium Nitride (GaN), GaN module, parasitics, 
module layout, paralleling, Double Pulse Test (DPT) 
I. INTRODUCTION 
For low voltage (< 100 V), high current (> 300 A) power 
converters, GaN based power modules seem to be a promising 
technology.  Compared to Si , GaN can achieve significantly 
increased switching frequency operation due to its lower 
switching losses, near-zero reverse recovery, and smaller gate 
charge.  With proper design, GaN has the potential to achieve 
higher efficiency and power density for these applications.  
However, as the power electronics community transitions from 
Si to GaN, care must be taken during the design of the power 
modules, as design techniques that may have been acceptable 
for Si based power modules can detriment the operation of a 
GaN based module.  Most notably, large package parasitic 
inductances can cause premature failure of the GaN dies due to 
VDS overshoot at hard switching turn-off transients.  This is 
particularly true for the low voltage GaN dies due to high 
currents, fast GaN switching transients, large package parasitics, 
and low VDS overshoot margins of ≤ 100 V rated dies.  Other 
negative impacts that parasitics can introduce include increased 
losses (circulating resonant currents, large gate/power inductive 
loops require slower switching), increased EMI noise, reduced 
short circuit survivability, and increased risk of gate false turn-
on. 
Thus, the goal of this paper is to 1) demonstrate the practical 
limitations and detriments caused by package parasitics for GaN 
modules, 2) recommend design strategies to minimize package 
parasitics, and 3) demonstrate the feasibility of low voltage high 
current GaN modules.  This is achieved by analyzing a 
commercial GaN module (100 V, 3-phase, 270 A per phase), 
existing modules from literature, and a custom GaN design (100 
V, 2-phase, 180 A per phase).   
In Section II, a commercial GaN module is analyzed.  A 
parasitics model was developed based on experimental 
impedance measurements.  This model was simulated using 
LTSpice, suggesting premature failure of the dies due to VDS 
overshoot caused by the package parasitics.  This prediction was 
verified by configuring the module in a double pulse test (DPT) 
and switching it at increasing currents until failure.  Test results 
confirmed premature failure when hard switching at 36% of its 
current rating (failed at 292 A, rated for 810 A based on die 
current rating).  Options to work with the existing module are 
explored, revealing that the route for optimal performance 
would be a redesign of the power stage with improved parasitics. 
In Section III, the module’s layout is analyzed using 3D 
electromagnetic modeling software Computer Simulation 
Technology (CST).  Design recommendations are given based 
on an analysis and critique of the commercial GaN module as 
well as an analysis of GaN modules from existing literature.   
In Section IV, a custom GaN module (100 V, 2-phase, 180 
A per phase) is implemented in a DPT to demonstrate the 
feasibility of low voltage high current GaN modules.  The 
hardware was successfully hard switched up to 375 A.  
Compared to the commercial module, this module demonstrated 
a 35% increase in hard switching current capability (375 A 
compared to 277 A) with less VDS overshoot (109.5 V compared 
to > 137.5 V).  Additionally, this module used smaller gate 
resistors (4 Ω per die compared to 6.8 Ω per die) and had less 
than half the number of parallel dies (4 parallel GS61008T dies 
compared to 9). 
II. COMMERCIAL GAN MODULE CHARICTARIZATION 
A. Parasitics Model Extraction 
In this section, the extraction of a detailed parasitics model 
for a commercial 3-phase GaN power module is presented.  Fig. 
1 shows the module and its equivalent circuit, not including 
parasitics.  There are three half bridge phases, each containing 
six GS61008T dies, six 6.8 Ω gate resistors, and one 0.1 µF 
decoupling capacitor.  Given the 90 A rated GS61008T dies, 
each phase’s theoretical current rating is 270 A. The five large 
tabs are the DC inputs and three switching nodes, and the smaller 
pins are connections for the six device gates, source returns, and 
internal thermocouple. 
This work was supported by the US Army CCDC Ground Vehicle 
Systems Center under SBIR contract number W56HZV-18-C-0021. 
978-1-7281-0395-2/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE 4109
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 1. (a) Commercial GaN module (3-phase, 100 V, 270 A per phase) 
(b) schematic of the commercial GaN module 
Fig. 2 shows the proposed high frequency differential mode 
equivalent circuit model.  For simplicity, parallel dies within 
each phase are lumped into a single switch.  Thus, C DS, CGD, 
and CGS account for three dies in parallel and Rg is equivalently 
three 6.8 Ω resistors in parallel.  Unlabeled components are the 
same across high and low side devices as well as across the 
three phases.   
 
Fig. 2. Developed model of GaN module including packaging parasitics 
TABLE I.  SUMMARY OF MODULE PARASITIC ELEMENTS 
 
 
To derive the equivalent parasitics model, techniques from 
[1] through [3] were used.  Table II outlines the first four 
impedance measurements taken on the module using an Agilent 
E4990A RF impedance analyzer, providing a capacitance, 
inductance, and resistance for each measurement.  Based on the 
equivalent circuit model, equations were generated to relate 
components in the equivalent model to the measured values.  For 
example, (1) shows the measurement 1 equivalent capacitance 
equation.  With four equations (from equivalent circuit model), 
four solutions (from four measurements), and four unknowns 
(CDS, CGS, CGD, and Cd), Mathematica was used to solve for CDS, 
CGS, CGD, and Cd.  The results are provided in Table I.  Note: in 
(1), CGAN is a single lumped capacitance accounting for C DS, 
CGS, and CGD.   
 ܥ௠௘௔௦ଵൌ
஼ಸೄ஼ಸೌಿା಴ಸವ಴ವೄ
಴ಸವశ಴ವೄ
஼ಸೌಿ
஼ಸೄା಴ಸವ಴ವೄ
಴ಸವశ಴ವೄ
ା஼ಸೌಿ
ܥௗܥீ௔ே (1) 
TABLE II.  SUMMARY OF IMPEDANCE MEASUREMENTS 1 THROUGH 4 
Measurement # Node 1 Node 2 
1 (All devices) Gate Source 
2 (All phases) High-side source Low-side gate 
3 (All phases) High-side source Low-side source 
4 (All phases) High-side gate Low-side gate 
TABLE III.  EQUIVALENT EQUATIONS OF MEASUREMENTS 1 THROUGH 4 
Equivalent 
Capacitance Equivalent Inductance Equivalent 
Resistance 
Equation (1) ܮ௚ܮଶ ܴ௚ܴଶ 
F(CDS, CGS, 
CGD, Cd) ܮଶܮ௚൅ܮଵܮௗ
ܮଵܮௗ
 ܴ௚ܴଵܴଶ 
F(CDS, CGS, 
CGD, Cd) ܮଶ൅ܮଵܮௗ
ܮଵܮௗ
 ܴଵܴଶ 
F(CDS, CGS, 
CGD, Cd) 
ܮଵܮௗ
ܮଵܮௗ
ܮ௚ ܴ௚ܴଵ 
 
Measurements 1 through 4 were also used to derive parasitic 
elements Lg, Ld, L1, L2, Rg, Rd, R1, and R2.  For measurements 
2 through 4, only a single Ld was considered in parallel with L1 
because the parallel inductive paths through Ld2 and Ls2 were so 
large compared to L1 that they were considered negligible.  R1 
and R2 are in series with L1 and L2, but were not included in the 
final parasitics model due to their relative insignificance.  The 
final parameter values are provided in Table I.   
In a similar fashion, measurements 5 through 7 were used 
to derive L d1, L d2, L s1, L s2, L m, and R m, whose results are 
included in Table I.  A final 8th measurement of the module’s 
input impedance was taken to observe the module’s resonances 
due to its trace inductances, internal decoupling capacitors, and 
die capacitances, as well as verify the theoretical model.  
Measurements 5 through 8 are described in Table IV.   
TABLE IV.  SUMMARY OF IMPEDANCE MEASUREMENTS 5 THROUGH 8 
Measurement # Node 1 Node 2 
5 (All phases) High-side source Switch node 
6 (All phases) Low-side gate Negative DC input 
7 (All phases) High-side gate Positive DC input 
8 Positive DC input Negative DC input 
4110
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
 Fig. 3 shows the developed theoretical model’s input 
impedance superimposed on the measured input impedance of 
the studied module, demonstrating strong agreement between 
the theoretical model and the hardware up to about 40 MHz.  
Comparable agreement was found for all measurements.  Note 
the minimum impedance at 1.4 MHz caused by resonance 
between the internal decoupling capacitors C d and trace 
inductances Ld, L d1, L d2, L s1, and L s2.  This low frequency 
underdamped resonance is unique compared to conventional 
modules because it is caused by the use of local internal 
decoupling capacitors inside the module.  Consequentially, this 
resonance is easily excited during switching transients, which 
will be further explored in following sections.   
 
Fig. 3. Input inpedance of GaN module (red) experimental measurement 
(black) equivalent circuit model 
B. Performance Impacts Due to Package Parasitics 
In this section, the various performance impacts and 
limitations caused by the module’s parasitics are explored by 
simulating the derived model from Fig. 2.  The module’s model 
was simulated using LTSpice in a DPT configuration with all 
three switch nodes tied together, thus operating the module as 
a single half bridge with nine parallel GS61008T dies.  Physics 
based device models were provided by the device 
manufacturer.  Key simulation parameters include: Cbulk = 500 
µF, L = 4 µH, VDC = 48 V, Rg(on) = 54.8 Ω (per die), Rg(off) = 6.8 
Ω (per die), VGS(on) = 6.2 V, and VGS(off) = -2.8 V.   
Fig. 4 shows the simulated DPT waveforms.  As seen, the 
third phase’s low side dies experience a VDS overshoot reaching 
140 V when hard switched at 110 A.  Based on the GS61008T 
datasheet [4], the dies can withstand an absolute maximum VDS 
transient pulse of 130 V for up to 1 µs.  Thus, the simulation 
was not pushed to higher currents.   
 
Fig. 4. DPT waveforms of the simulated parasitics model 
Considering that the module is operating as a half bridge 
with nine parallel GS61008T dies (each die rated for 100 V, 90 
A), the module’s theoretical current rating is 810 A.  Since 
simulation suggests that the dies exceed their VDS rating when 
hard switching at 110 A, VDS overshoot is expected to be the 
major performance limiting factor.  Although more work is 
needed to determine the actual die failure point, it is predicted 
that the dies will fail well below the 810 A module rating.  This 
also limits the survivable short circuit current unless additional 
soft turn-off protection features are implemented. 
There are several other performance impacts that the 
module’s parasitics introduce.  Fig. 5 shows a zoomed in view 
of the simulation’s second DPT pulse.  As seen on the V DS 
signal, there is a large underdamped 1.4 MHz oscillation.  This 
is caused by resonance between the internal decoupling 
capacitors Cd and trace inductances Ld, Ld1, Ld2, Ls1, and Ls2.  
During operation, this resonance is excited at switching 
transients and induces circulating currents (causing unwanted 
conduction losses) and voltage ripple on the input and output 
buses.  This voltage ripple is a major contributor to the die VDS 
overshoot (the primary current limiting factor for the module) 
and causes increased EMI noise which could require additional 
filtering to meet commercial or military EMI standards. 
A second oscillation can also be seen in Fig. 5 at 
approximately 80 MHz.  This is primarily caused by resonance 
between the die off-state capacitances CDS, CGS, and CGD and 
parasitic inductances L1, Ld, however, Ld1, Ld2, Ls1, and Ld2 also 
have an influence.  This resonance is the second major 
contributor to V DS overshoot (limiting the module’s current 
capability) as well as causes increased switching losses.   
Another impact of the package parasitics is the inability to 
accurately measure the die VDS.  Notice how in Fig. 5 the die 
VDS reaches 140 V yet the voltage at the module terminals 
peaks at only 85 V.  This is because the package parasitics act 
as impedance between the dies and the module terminals.  Thus, 
whatever VDS is measured during hardware testing, the true die 
VDS is larger.   
 
Fig. 5. Zoomed in view of the DPT simulation’s second pulse 
Another potential negative impact of this design relates to 
the gate.  The large gate loop inductance (Lg and L2 combine to 
24.8 nH) and large 6.8 Ω internal gate resistor (per die) can 
reduce the pull-down capability of the gate driver which 
increases the chances of false turn-on.  This can be combatted 
by increasing the turn-on gate resistance, however, this 
increases turn-on switching losses [5].   
4111
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
C. Hardware Testing of Commercial GaN Module 
To validate the claims of reduced switching current 
capability, the hardware DPT setup shown in Fig. 6 was 
assembled.  Four-layer PCBs were developed for the gate drive 
circuitry and external decoupling capacitors, using interleaving 
flux canceling layers to provide low inductance gate and power 
loop connections.  The decoupling capacitor board had 154 µF 
of ceramic capacitors and 400 µF of film capacitors.  Key 
hardware parameters were: L = 4 µH, VDC = 48 V, Rg(on) = 54.8 
Ω (per die), Rg(off) = 6.8 Ω (per die), VGS(on) = 6.2 V, and VGS(off) 
= -2.8 V.   
 
Fig. 6. Hardware DPT setup using the commercial GaN module 
The module was subjected to increasing DPT currents until 
it experienced catastrophic failure.  Fig. 7 shows the module 
hard switching at 277 A which was the test point before failure.  
The low side die V DS was measured at the module terminals 
(actual die VDS is larger).  This V DS measurement reached a 
peak of 130 V and had 2.1 MHz and 70 MHz components.  The 
higher frequency 70 MHz oscillation matches the simulated 80 
MHz reasonably well.  The hardware’s resonant frequency 
could be lower due to added inductance from the external 
capacitor PCB and/or the model’s limited accuracy of the 
module’s internal distributed inductances.  The lower 
frequency resonance at 2.1 MHz is higher than the simulated 
1.4 MHz because the hardware’s internal capacitance 
decreased with the 48 V DC bias, a common trait of ceramic 
capacitor dielectrics.   
 
Fig. 7. Hardware DPT waveforms of the GaN module at 277 A 
Finally, Fig. 8 shows the waveforms that resulted in module 
failure.  When hard switched at 292 A, the measured V DS 
overshoot reached a peak voltage of 137 V (at the module 
terminals) which irreversibly damaged the internal dies.  This 
is why the 2.1 MHz V DS oscillation is not present after the 
second pulse of this DPT.   
 
 
Fig. 8. Hardware DPT waveforms at 292 A resulting in module failure 
D. The Necessity for Improved Parasitics 
In this section, methods to improve the switching current 
capability of the existing module are presented, as well as their 
corresponding tradeoffs.  This is used to emphasize why the only 
way to achieve optimal all-around performance is by improving 
the module’s parasitics.   
To improve the switching current capability of this module, 
the factors that dictate VDS overshoot must first be understood.  
In this scenario, four factors contribute to the VDS overshoot: 1) 
switching current amplitude (per die), 2) DC bus voltage, 3) 
switching speed, and 4) circuit parasitics.   
The switching current amplitude and DC bus voltage are 
typically dictated by the application and topology, which makes 
them difficult to change.  One way to reduce these is with the 
use of a unique topology which splits the current between more 
dies (such as using a full bridge instead of a half bridge), or 
subjects the dies to less than the DC bus voltage (such as the 
topology presented in [6]).  These can come at the expense of 
increased die count and/or increased layout and control 
complexities.  Another method to decrease the die switching 
current is to parallel multiple  modules at the expense of 
increased size, cost, and complexity. 
A simpler way to decrease the VDS overshoot at hard turn-
off is to decrease the switching speed by increasing the gate turn-
off resistor value.  This decreases the di/dt in the parasitic 
inductances and thus decreases the VDS overshoot.  This comes 
at the expense of increased turn-off switching losses [5] as well 
as diminished gate driver decoupling/pull down capability.  This 
increases the risk of false turn-on and shoot-through when the 
complementary device(s) turn-on.  This false turn-on can be 
mitigated by increasing the turn-on resistors (at the expense of 
increased turn-on switching losses), adding parallel capacitance 
to C GS (decreases switching speed which gives increased 
switching losses, increased gate drive losses), implementing 
miller clamping (increased gate drive complexity), and/or by 
using a negative off gate bias (increased reverse conduction 
losses, increased gate drive complexity). 
 
4112
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
 The final factor that affects the circuit’s V DS overshoot is the 
circuit parasitics, which are unchangeable for a preassembled 
module.  However, one way to effectively alter the resonant 
impedance of the module is to add a snubber network.  A 
snubber such as an RC damper could be added to the module’s 
DC input and/or between the switching nodes and one of the DC 
input terminals.  This method could be useful for damping the 
2.1 MHz resonant component found in the hardware testing but 
practically cannot damp the 70 MHz component due to parasitic 
inductances between the 70 MHz resonant loop and the damper.  
Additionally, this approach adds unnecessary losses, size, and 
complexity. 
 Another possibility for altering the module’s resonant 
structure is to increase the internal capacitance value (not a 
possibility from the user side, only from the manufacturer side).  
This would effectively lower the resonant frequency between 
the external and internal capacitors and increase the damping 
factor of this RLC network.  However, even if the internal 
capacitor were as large as possible, the available space only 
allows for a 22 µF 100 V ceramic capacitor in a 2220 package.  
Although this would decrease the VDS overshoot compared to 
the existing 0.1 µF version, there would still be a non-negligible 
resonance between the external and internal decoupling 
capacitors.  Thus, the package inductances are still a source of 
unnecessary circulating currents causing additional losses and 
EMI noise.   
 Although these presented options would allow the exiting 
module to achieve an increased switching current capability, 
they diminish the potential performance that GaN power 
transistors offer by increasing complexity, size, cost, losses, 
and/or sacrificing reliability.  To achieve high switching current 
capability, small switching losses, high switching frequency 
operation, reduced EMI noise generation, and high gate drive 
reliability, a module with improved parasitics is necessary. 
III. GAN MODULE DESIGN ANALYSIS, EXAMPLES, AND 
RECCOMENDATIONS 
In this section, GaN module layout recommendations are 
provided by analyzing the design of the commercial module as 
well as designs from modules presented in [11], [12], and [13].   
A. Layout Analysis of a Commercial GaN Module 
To analyze the design of the commercial GaN module, the 
casing was removed to reveal the layout, shown in Fig. 9.  It 
was revealed that this module uses a dual bonded copper (DBC) 
substrate and wire bonds for die and trace connections. To 
better understand the electrical implications of this layout, the 
traces were modeled in 3D electromagnetic simulation software 
Computer Simulation Technology (CST).  Fig. 10 shows the 3D 
model, developed using measurements of the module’s traces.  
Using this model, three major aspects of the layout are 
analyzed, including: 1) lateral inner power loops, 2) cascaded 
layout of the parallel phases, and 3) use of wire bonds.   
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 9. (a) View of exposed commercial GaN module  
(b) Close up view of a single phase 
 
Fig. 10. CST model of the commercial GaN module’s traces 
1) Layout Analysis: Lateral Power Loops 
The first aspect of the design that was analyzed is the use of 
a lateral inner power loop (loop including the internal local 
decoupling capacitor and its adjacent dies).  This loop 
inductance is the major cause for the 70 MHz VDS oscillation 
observed in the module hardware testing.  To quantify the 
consequences of this layout, the loop inductance was simulated 
for each set of parallel dies (from closest to furthest from the 
decoupling capacitor).  Fig. 11 shows the 3D model used for 
this simulation.  For simplicity, the wire bonds and dies were 
modeled as continuous flat traces.  The resulting loop 
inductances for the closest to furthest set of parallel dies were 
11.4 nH, 19.8 nH, and 28.0 nH.   
 
4113
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
 
Fig. 11. CST model of the module’s lateral power loop inductances 
There are a couple points to make from this information.  
The first pertains to the asymmetry of the power loop 
inductances for the parallel dies.  References [7] and [8] discuss 
the consequences of asymmetrical power loop inductances for 
paralleled GaN dies.  The result is that the current sharing and 
switching characteristics aren’t equal among all paralleled dies.  
This overstresses certain dies and underutilizes others, resulting 
in non-uniform VDS overshoots, losses, and heat distribution.   
Secondly, it has been shown that a lateral power loop 
(meaning the decoupling capacitor, dies, and connecting traces 
lie in the same plane) is not optimal for GaN applications due 
to its relatively large loop inductance.  This is especially true 
for paralleled dies, as the further die in the lateral power loop 
will inherently have a larger and asymmetrical loop inductance.  
Instead, both EPC and GaN Systems recommend for their 
designs the use of flux canceling traces to achieve symmetric 
and minimized power loop trace inductances [9] [10].  
Additionally, [9] discusses specifically how their recommended 
layout has significantly lower loop inductance than a lateral 
power loop.  Although it is easiest and most effective to 
implement flux canceling traces using a PCB, it can be achieved 
using DBC or an Insulated Metal Substrate (IMS), which will 
be discussed in following sections.   
2) Layout Analysis: Cascaded Layout of Parallel Phases 
The second design aspect to be analyzed is the cascaded 
layout of the three parallel phases.  Fig. 12 helps visualize the 
inductive loops created by this cascaded structure. These three 
inductive loops resonate with the internal 0.1 µF capacitors and 
cause the 2.1 MHz V DS oscillation observed during hardware 
testing.  Based on the parasitics model derived in Section II, the 
cumulative loop inductances from the module’s +DC to -DC 
tabs through the first to third phase’s internal decoupling 
capacitors are 29.1 nH, 51.8 nH, and 74.5 nH.   
 
Fig. 12. Illistration of cascaded structure of parallel phases 
There are two major issues related to this layout structure.  
Firstly, since the DC inputs to the module are not distributed 
bus bars, the loop inductances for each phase are inherently not 
equal.  As discussed earlier, this creates non-uniform current 
sharing and resonances, overstressing certain dies and 
underutilizing the remaining.  Secondly, since the cascaded 
phases have sections of shared parasitic inductances (namely 
Ld1, Ls1, and the leftmost Ld2 and Ls2 in Fig. 12), the switching 
operations of one phase directly impacts the other phases.   
To illustrate this, the simulation model from Section II was 
implemented such that only the third phase was switching with 
an output DPT current of 90 A (one third of the third phase’s 
current rating) and the first two phase’s devices were kept off 
with their switch nodes connected to ground.  Fig. 13 shows 
operation waveforms of this simulation.  As shown, when only 
the third phase is switching there is still an induced VDS spike 
and oscillations on the first two phase’s devices.  This causes 
additional losses and is a direct effect of the shared inductances 
of each phase’s power loops.   
 
Fig. 13. Simulation results showing the effects of shared power loop 
inductances of parallel phases 
The solution to both of these issues is to implement a DC 
bus input to the module with a distributed capacitance bank, 
such as the module shown in Fig. 14 [11].  A distributed bus 
like this would provide symmetrical power loop inductances for 
all parallel phases with no or minimized shared inductance 
between the parallel phases.   
3) Layout Analysis: Wire Bonds 
Wire bonds have been a common interconnect method in 
power modules for both power and signal traces.  
Unfortunately, wire bonds are one of the major sources of 
failure, increase inductance, and can potentially limit the 
module’s current handling capability [11].  The inductance 
introduced by wire bonds can be on the scale of several 
nanohenries, which as demonstrated is non-negligible for GaN 
operation.  Additionally, wire bonds inherently cannot be 
implemented in a flux canceling fashion.  Thus, a wire bondless 
assembly has the potential to achieve smaller loop inductances 
than a wire bonded alternative, especially if trace flux 
cancelation is utilized.   
4114
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
B. Layout Reccomendations from Existing GaN Modules 
One of the first design choices when designing a module is 
the selection whether to implement the dies on DBC, IMS, or 
PCB (or alternative).  The most common approach is to use 
DBC with a thick baseplate for thermal spreading and 
mechanical stability.  Fig. 14 shows a GaN module (half bridge, 
650 V, 150 A) designed using this approach from [11].  Their 
design paralleled five GS66508 dies with a claimed inductance 
between the +DC and -DC inputs of 5.1 nH to 5.6 nH 
(frequency dependent).   
The low power loop inductance can be attributed to the low 
package profile, wide busbar and power traces, and the absence 
of wire bonds in the power loop.  Additionally, the distributed 
DC busbar inputs help keep the power loop inductance for each 
set of paralleled dies symmetric.  One limitation of this design 
relates to the gate drive design.  As seen, the gate drive circuitry 
inputs are located at one end of the module.  Presumably, this 
means that the gate loop inductance for each set of paralleled 
dies will be asymmetric and relatively large for the dies placed 
furthest from the gate drive circuitry.  Also, it was stated that 
wire bonds were used for the die gate and source return 
connections, introducing additional gate loop inductance.   
 
Fig. 14. DBC based GaN module design from [11] 
Designed in a less traditional fashion, Fig. 15 shows a GaN 
module (half bridge, 650 V, 120 A) implemented on IMS from 
[12].  This module has four parallel GS66508B dies and 
integrates the power stage decoupling capacitors and gate driver 
ICs on a board elevated directly above it.  The distributed power 
stage decoupling capacitors allow each paralleled set of dies to 
have symmetric power loop inductances for uniform current 
sharing and thermal performance.  Additionally, the close 
proximity of the gate driver board allows for partial loop flux 
cancelation of the power and gate loop traces, resulting in a 
claimed commutation loop inductance of 1.3 nH, a quasi-
common source inductance of < 0.3 nH, and gate driver loop 
inductances ranging from 6.8 nH to 7.4 nH (slight asymmetry).   
 
Fig. 15. IMS based GaN module design from [12] 
The final module to be discussed is shown in Fig. 16 from 
[13].  This module (half bridge, 650 V, 240 A) is implemented 
on a 6-layer PCB and parallels four GS66516T dies.  A high 
level of integration was achieved with the use of a PCB since it 
allows for the dies, power stage decoupling capacitors, and gate 
driver circuitry to all reside on a single board.  Additionally, the 
close proximity of the PCB layers allows for optimal flux 
cancelation of the power loop traces, resulting in a claimed 
commutation loop inductance of 0.7 nH and quasi-common 
source inductance of < 0.2 nH.  This low inductance design 
allowed for a DPT demonstration at its full current rating of 240 
A while operating with a DC bus voltage of 400 V, achieving a 
VDS overshoot of only 52 V.   
 
Fig. 16. PCB based GaN module design from [13] 
IV. DEMONSTATION OF A 100 V, 360 A GAN MODULE 
To demonstrate the feasibility of a low voltage, high current 
GaN module, a prototype with four parallel GS61008 dies was 
developed, resulting in a 100 V, 360 A rated module.  Fig. 17 
shows a picture of the assembled DPT hardware setup.  The 
dies were implemented on a 6-layer PCB in a low inductance 
flux canceling design [13].  Key hardware parameters were: L 
= 2 µH, VDC = 48 V, Rg(on) = 10 Ω (per die), Rg(off) = 4 Ω (per 
die), VGS(on) = 6 V, and VGS(off) = -3.3 V.   
 
Fig. 17. Hardware DPT setup of a custom 100 V, 360 A GaN module 
Fig. 18 shows the DPT waveform when hard switching up 
to 367 A.  The first pulse’s hard turn-off was at 200 A, and the 
VDS peaked at 98.7 V and achieved a switching speed of 34.5 
V/ns.  The second pulse’s hard turn-off was at 367 A, and the 
VDS peaked at 85.5 V with a turn-off switching speed of 20.4 
V/ns.  This result was surprising, as the V DS overshoot was 
expected to increase with an increasing current.  Although it 
makes sense that the VDS overshoot is less since the switching 
speed was slower, more work is needed to understand the 
mechanism causing the reduced switching speed of the second 
pulse. This will be reported in a future work.   
4115
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 8 ===
 
Fig. 18. Custom GaN module DPT waveforms at 367 A 
In an attempt to further charictarize the module, it was 
subjected to a 375 A single pulse (same hardware setup).  The 
waveforms are shown in Fig. 19.  As seen, the VDS reached a 
peak of 109.5 V with a measured switching speed of 35.0 V/ns.  
Additionally, there is no low frequency oscillation on the VDS 
waveform (such as the 2.1 MHz oscillation observed in the 
commercial module’s DPT) due to the optimal power stage 
layout inspired by [13].   
 
Fig. 19. Custom GaN module single pulse waveforms at 375 A 
As demonstrated, this module was capable of hard 
switching at currents surpassing its die current ratings and with 
VDS switching speeds reaching 35 V/ns.  Compared to the 
commercial module analyzed in this paper, the custom module 
successfully switched at a 36% larger current (375 A compared 
to 277 A), had a > 20% reduction in VDS overshoot at that higher 
current (109.5 V compared to > 137.5 V), achieved faster 
switching (gate resistance of 4 Ω per die compared to 6.8 Ω per 
die), and used less than half of the parallel dies (4 parallel 
GS61008 dies compared to 9), successfully demonstrating the 
feasibility of a low voltage, high current GaN module and the 
benefits of minimized layout parasitics.   
V. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, the analysis of a commercial 3-phase, 100 V, 
270 A (per phase) GaN module was presented.  A detailed 
parasitics model was derived and used to predict the premature 
failure of the module due to V DS overshoot, a unique 
susceptibility for low voltage, high current GaN modules.  This 
was confirmed with a hardware DPT setup, demonstrating 
module failure due to VDS overshoot at 36% of its die current 
rating (failed at 292 A hard switching, rated for 810 A).  
Methods to work with the exis ting module were explored, 
demonstrating that optimal performance is only achievable with 
improved module parasitics.  GaN module layout 
recommendations were presented based on analysis of the 
commercial module’s layout as well as layouts from [11], [12], 
and [13].  The paper concluded with a hardware DPT 
demonstration of a custom 100 V, 360 A GaN module.  The 
hardware was successfully hard switched at 375 A with a DC 
bus of 48 V, achieving a VDS switching speed of 35 V/ns.  This 
demonstrated the feasibility of a low voltage (< 100 V), high 
current (> 300 A) GaN module. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
Mainstream Engineering Corp. would like to thank the US 
Army CCDC Ground Vehicle Systems Center for supporting 
this work under SBIR contract number W56HZV-18-C-0021. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Q. Tao, J. Graham, J. Sun, “Characterization of IGBT modules for system 
EMI simulation”, Proc. 25th Appl. Power Electron. Conf. Exp., pp. 2220-
2225, 2010-Feb. 21-25 
[2] Lemmon, A., and Graves, R.: ‘Parasitic extraction procedure for silicon 
carbide power modules’. Proc. Int. Workshop on Integrated Power 
Packaging, Chicago, USA, May 2015, pp. 91–94 
[3] Yang, L., and Odendaal, W.: ‘Measurement-based method to characterize 
parasitic parameters of the integrated power electronics modules’, Trans. 
Power Electron., 2007, 22, (1), pp. 54–62 
[4] GaN Systems, “GS61008T Top-side cooled 100 V E-mode GaN 
transistor,” GS61008T datasheet, 2018.   
[5] GaN Systems, “GaN Switching Loss Simulation using LTSpice,” 2018.  
[6] B. Hu, J. A. Brothers, X. Zhang, L. Fu, Y. M. Alsmadi and J. Wang, "An 
Isolated Phase-Shift-Controlled Quasi-Switched-Capacitor DC/DC 
Converter With Gallium Nitride Devices," in IEEE Journal of Emerging 
and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 609-621, June 
2019. 
[7] EPC, Reusch, D., “Effectively Paralleling Gallium Nitride Transistors for 
High Current and High Frequency Applications,” 2016. 
[8] N. Sang, P. Jeannin and P. Lefranc, "Analyses of the unbalanced 
paralleled GaN HEMT transistors," 2018 20th European Conference on 
Power Electronics and Applications (EPE'18 ECCE Europe), Riga, 2018, 
pp. P.1-P.9. 
[9] EPC, Reusch, D., “Optimizing PCB Layout,” 2014. 
[10] GaN Systems, “Design considerations of Paralleld GaN HEMT-based 
Half Bridge Power Stage,” 2018. 
[11] B. Passmore et al., "A 650 V/150 A enhancement mode GaN-based half-
bridge power module for high frequency power conversion systems," 
2015 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), 
Montreal, QC, 2015, pp. 4520-4524. 
[12] J. L. Lu, D. Chen and L. Yushyna, "A high power-density and high 
efficiency insulated metal substrate based GaN HEMT power module," 
2017 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), 
Cincinnati, OH, 2017, pp. 3654-3658.  
[13] J. L. Lu and D. Chen, "Paralleling GaN E-HEMTs in 10kW–100kW 
systems," 2017 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and 
Exposition (APEC), Tampa, FL, 2017, pp. 3049-3056. 
 
4116
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 