
=== PAGE 1 ===
 Paralleling GaN E-HEMTs in 10kW-100kW Systems  
Juncheng(Lucas) Lu, Di Chen 
GaN Systems Inc 
Ottawa, Canada 
llu@gansystems.com 
 
Abstract— Industry is adopting GaN HEMT in 10kW-100kW 
and higher power systems due to the ultra-fast switching 
capabilities of GaN. Paralleling GaN HEMT transistors is an 
appealing idea to further increase the power capability and reduce 
conduction losses of systems. The characteristics of E-mode GaN 
HEMT, such as positive temperature coefficient of R
DS(ON) and a 
temperature independent threshold voltage, are very suitable for 
paralleling devices.  However, the main challenge for parallel 
operation is thought to be the diverse parasitics of the power stage 
and gate driver circuits, which are very sensitive to the high di/dt 
and dv/dt during the switching process.  
In this paper, an analytic mode l for the switching process of 
paralleled GaN HEMT transistors is built to analyze the effects of 
parasitics and device characteristics on paralleling, and the design 
consideration for gate driver and la yout is also presented. A half 
bridge power stage consisting of four high-side and four low-side 
60 A / 650 V GaN HEMTs in parallel is designed to undertake 240 
A / 400 V hard switching on and off. Double pulse testing results 
are presented to confirm GaN paralleling capability.   
Keywords—GaN HEMT; paralleling; parasitics; gate driver 
design
； PCB Layout   
I. INTRODUCTION  
GaN E-HEMTs (high electron mobility transistors) are being 
designed into many power electronics applications, including 
travel adapters, wireless chargers, smart home appliances, high 
efficiency AC-DC datacenter pow er supplies, industrial motor 
drives, distributed energy generation and storage systems, 
aerospace, automotive traction i nverters, on-board EV battery 
chargers, DC-DC converters and etc.
  
This is exemplified by the lowest figure of merit (R DS(on) x 
QG) of all power transistor technologies available today as 
shown in Figure 1. The ultra-fast switching capabilities of GaN, 
combined with low on-resist ance and superior thermal 
performance, enables higher e fficiency and power density in 
these applications.  
Industry is also applying GaN transistors in 10kW-100kW 
and higher power systems. Currently the commercially available 
GaN HEMT with highest current capability is GS66516T (60 A 
/ 650 V) from GaN Systems Inc. Paralleling GaN HEMTs is a 
must to further increase the power capability and efficiency of 
high power systems. 
The characteristics of E-mode GaN HEMT are very suitable 
for paralleling. Using GaN Systems’ GS66516T as an example, 
the I-V curve at different temperatures is shown in Figure.2, 
where obvious positive dependency on temperature is shown. In 
parallel applications, the junction temperature of HEMTs of 
lower R
DS(ON) devices will increase to balance the current 
sharing during on-state. 
 
Figure. 1. Figure of merit comparison between different technologies 
 
 
Figure. 2. V-I Curve of GS66516T  vs. Temperature 
Furthermore, the threshold voltage (Vth) of the GS66516T is 
nearly constant as a function of junction temperature as shown 
in Figure 3. The device with lower V th will turn on earlier and 
turn off earlier which will result in a higher turn-on switching 
loss and a lower turn-off switch ing loss. The dynamic current 
sharing and switching loss distribution will not be effected by 
unbalanced temperature distribution of paralleled transistors.  
 The main challenge for parallel operation is thought to be 
the diverse parasitics of the power stage and gate driver circuits, 
which are very sensitive to the high di/dt and dv/dt during the 
switching process. Although the effect of parasitics on single 
device switching has been thoroughly discussed in the previous 
978-1-5090-5366-7/17/$31.00 ©2017 IEEE 3049
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
work [1][2][3][4], there is very little previous work focusing on 
the dynamic performance of paralleled GaN HEMTs [5][6], and 
paralleling of more than 2 GaN HEMTs is thought to be 
extremely difficult to realize [7]. 
 
Figure. 3. Vth of GS66516T vs. Temperature 
Zero Voltage Switching (ZVS) technology could relieve the 
high di/dt stress during the hard turn-on switching process, 
facilitating GaN HEMT paralleling. A 4x GS66516T in parallel 
based 7.2 kW On-board Char ger has been successfully 
developed [8] with 97% efficiency, and 3.3 kW/L Power 
density, in which a 400 V / 92 A hard turn-off switching was 
reliably demonstrated. 
The aim of this paper is to remove bottlenecks of applying 
GaN HEMT to ~100 kW power electronics systems, which are 
not only limited to ZVS typologies but also hard switching 
applications. In Section II, an analytic model for switching 
process of paralleled GaN HEMTs is built, and the design rules 
for gate driver and PCB layout are concluded based on the 
quantitative analysis of parasitics. In Section III, the design of 
240 A / 650 V half bridge power stage with 4x GS66516T in 
parallel is detailed with the parasitics fully extracted. In Section 
IV, the experimental result of 240 A / 400 V hard switching is 
presented to verify the design.  
II. E
FFECTS AND DESIGN RULES OF PARASITICS FOR 
PARALLELED GAN HEMTS 
Compared with the analytical loss model on Si 
MOSFET[12], the unique character istics of GaN HEMT, e.g. 
absence of body diode, have been taken into consideration. 
Special attention is paid on the additional parasitics introduced 
by the paralleled transistors.  
The equivalent circuit of a half bridge power stage consisting 
of two high-side and two low-side GaN HEMTs in parallel is 
shown as Figure 4, in which all the parasitic inductance in the 
gate drive loop and power commutation loop is included.    
Instead of trying to predict the switching waveform of 
paralleled transistors, the aim of this section is to understand the 
effects of parasitics and device characteristics on paralleled 
transistors paralleling during the switching process via the built 
analytical model in this section. Numerical methods, e.g. SPICE 
simulation, will be a more efficient way to precisely model the 
non-linear trans-conductance and parasitic capacitance of power 
switches.  
 
Figure.4. Equivalent Ciruit of Half Bridge with 2x GaN HEMTs in Parallel  
A. Switching-on Process 
The state of GaN HEMT as well as the waveform of Vds, Ids 
during switching on is shown in Figure 5. The switching on 
process of paralleled GaN HEMTs is divided into four periods 
to ease the analysis, P1-delay pe riod, P2-di/dt period, P3-dv/dt 
period, P4-remaining switching period.  
 
Figure.5.a Vds, Ids Waveform During Switching on        
 
Figure. 5.b State of GaN HEMT During Switching on 
1) P1:Delay Period 
3050
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
When controller signal is added to the low side gate driver, 
the higher switch of totem pole circuit in gate driver chip is 
turned on. The gate driver ca pacitor begins to charge the ூௌௌ 
(ீ஽) of paralleled HEMT. When V GS<Vth (threshold 
voltage of GaN HEMT), the 2-Dimensional Electron Gas 
(2DEG) is not conducting as shown in Figure 5.  
Gate current IG charges Ciss exponentially through the gate 
resistors and parasitics. This period ends when ீௌ of either of 
the paralleled HEMTs reaches the threshold voltage. 
 
Figure. 6.  Equivalent Circuit during Delay Period of Switching on Process      
Only taking the low side gate driver circuit into 
consideration, the equivalent circuit of this period could be 
simplified as shown in Figure 6. To ease the derivation, we only 
list the equations for the left one(Q1) of two paralleled 
transistors. 
 The circuit equations of Q1 are expressed by (1)~(2).  
ܸ
ଵ∙
ௗ௜ಸభ
ௗ௧ଵ∙
ௗ௜ಸభ
ௗ௧ீௌభ	  (1) 
ூௌௌଵ∙
ௗ௩ಸೄభ
ௗ௧  (2) 
Where, ௌଵ,  ௌଵ.  
So, VGS could be derived as (3). 
ௗ௥∙( 1+
ௌమ
ௌభିௌమ
ௌభ∙௧+
ௌభ
ௌమିௌభ
ௌమ∙௧) （3） 
Where, ଵ,ଶ=
±ඨோభమିସಽభ
಴಺ೄೄభ
ିோభ
ଶ∙௅భ
.  
According to equation (3), unbalanced gate driver loop (ଵ) 
will result in different slew rate of gate driver voltage, which 
will eventually cause unsynchronized switching of paralleled 
transistors. Generally speaking, the delay time could be ~nS 
level if there is a 10 nH gate drive loop inductance difference for 
two paralleled HEMTs, which is not critical. 
So, for PCB design, we always want to make the gate driver 
loops as symmetric and small as possible.  
In this period, the extra-small parasitic capacitance of GaN 
HEMT will result in a small delay time and gate driver loss 
compared with Si transistors.  
2) P2:di/dt Period 
After either of the paralleled HEMTs reaches the threshold 
voltage, the impedance of 2DEG begins to decrease. As shown 
in Figure 5, in this period the HEMT operates in the saturation 
region. The 2DEG current is controlled by V
GS as (6).  
௧௛)  (4)   
 
Figure.7.  Equivalent Circuit during di/dt Period of Switching on Process 
As ீௌ increase,  
ௗ௜ವ
ௗ௧ will start to affect ீௌ via mutual 
inductance and common source inductance between gate driver 
loop and power commutation loop as described in many 
previous works.  To minimize this effect, the Kelvin terminal is 
usually employed in high-frequency applications to bypass the 
common source inductance. 
 However, though the paralleled transistors will share the 
same gate driver chip and employ Kelvin connections in the 
design,  
ௗ௜ವ
ௗ௧ , as shown in Figure 6, could still potentially be 
problematic due to the existence of the quasi-common-source 
inductance ( LQS1  and LQS2 as shown in Figure 7). The 
imbalanced quasi-common sour ce inductance or di/dt will 
eventually cause a resultant feedback voltage across theீௌ as 
described in equation (5). 
ொௌଵ∙
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧ொௌଶ∙
ௗ௜ವమ
ௗ௧)∙
௓ೞమ
௓ೞభା௓ೞమ
 (5) 
So, based on KCL and KVL, the circuit equations are 
expressed as (6) ~ (8).  
ீ஽భ∙
ௗ௩ಸೄభ
ௗ௧ீௌభ∙
ௗ௩ಸೄభ
ௗ௧ =
ଵ
ோభ
ଵ∙
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧ଵ∙
ௗ௜ಸభ
ௗ௧)              (6) 
௉∙ቀ
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧+
ௗ௜ವమ
ௗ௧ଵ∙
ௗ௜ಸభ
ௗ௧−( LD1 +
LQS1)∙
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧       ( 7 )  
ூௌௌభ∙
ௗ௩ಸೄభ
ௗ௧ோௌௌభ∙
ௗ௩ಸವభ
ௗ௧    (8) 
This period ends when ஽ଵor ஽ଶreaches ௟௢௔ௗ. The vீௌభis 
derived as (9) assuming 
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧=
ௗ௜ವమ
ௗ௧ . 
௧௛ଵ)∙
௦మ∙௘ೞభ೟ି௦భ∙௘ೞమ೟
௦భି௦మ
)  (9) 
Where ଵ,ଶ=
±ඥ௕మିସ௔ି௕
ଶ௔ , 1+
ீ) , b=1+
ூௌௌ.    	
The ஽ௌଵ and ஽ௌଵ could be derived according to (4), (7), (9). 
3051
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
According to equation (6)(9), the quasi-common source 
inductance ( LQS1,	LQS2 ) has the same effect as Mଵ(mutual 
inductance and common source inductance between gate driver 
loop and power commutation loop). On one hand, the 
unbalanced quasi-common will help balance dynamic current 
distribution by lowering the transistor ீௌ of higher transition 
speed. On the other hand, the feedback voltage might potentially 
cause overshoot or undamped ringing on ீௌ.  
So, for layout design, it is suggested to minimize and evenly 
distribute the quasi-common source inductance, which is so 
critical that an unsynchronized gate driver circuit is proposed to 
solve unbalanced quasi-common source inductance issue [5]. In 
this paper, a symmetric power loop and gate driver loop layout 
is proposed to achieve reliable switching.   
3) P3:dv/dt Period 
Because of the absence of body diode for high side HEMT, 
once ݅
஽ reaches ௟௢௔ௗ, the voltage across drain and source of low 
side transistor begin to build, and ைௌௌof high side and low side 
begins to be discharged and charged through 2DEG of lower 
HEMTs exponentially as Figure 8.  
 
Figure. 8.  Equivalent Circuit during dv/dt Period of Switching on Process      
The impedance of 2DEG is controlled by the ீௌ as (10).  
Assume 
ௗ௩ಸೄభ
ௗ௧ =0  during the miller plateau, so ீௌభ is a 
constant value(ீௌభ_௠௜௟௟௘௥) in this period.  
 ଶ஽ாீ= 
௩ವೄ
୥∙(௩ಸೄି௏೟೓)   ( 1 0 )  
This period ends when ௗ௦ reaches zero. The circuit 
equation could be expressed as (11) ~ (12).  
ீ஽భ∙
ௗ௩ವೄభ
ௗ௧ =
ଵ
ோభ
ଵ∙
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧ଵ∙
ீ஽భ∙
ௗమ௩ವೄభ
ௗ௧మ )       ( 1 1 )  
ைௌௌ௧௢௧௔௟∙
ௗ௩ವೄ
ௗ೟
ைௌௌ௧௢௧௔௟∙
ௗమ௩ವೄ
ௗ೟మ஻௎ௌ     ( 1 2 )  
Where,ொௌమ) , 
௢௦௦௧௢௧௔௟ is the total output capacitance of both high side and 
lower side transistors, ଶ஽ாீ is the 2DEG resistance of low side 
transistors. 
The ஽ௌభand ீௌభ of low side HEMT could be derived as (13) 
and (14).  
஻௎ௌ∙( 1−
ௌమ
ௌమିௌభ
ௌభ∙௧+
ௌభ
ௌమିௌభ
ௌమ∙௧) （13） 
Where, ଵ,ଶ=
±ඨோమವಶಸ
మ ିସ ಽಽೀೀು
಴ೀೄೄ೟೚೟ೌ೗
ିோమವಶಸ
ଶ∙௅ಽೀೀು
.  
ீௌభ_௠௜௟௟௘௥=
ଵ
ோభ
ீ஽భ∙
ௗ௩ವೄభ
ௗ௧ଵ∙
ீ஽భ∙
ௗమ௩ವೄభ
ௗ௧మீ஽భ∙
ௗమ௩ವೄభ
ௗ௧మ )    
 (14) 
Where, ொௌଵ∙
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧ொௌଶ∙
ௗ௜ವమ
ௗ௧)∙
௓ೞమ
௓ೞభା௓ೞమ
, ଵ=
ௌଵ,  ௌଵ. 
According to (10) and (13), the miller plateau voltage 
(ீௌభ_೘೔೗೗೐ೝ) determines ଶ஽ாீ so as to control the slew rate of 
the exponential drain and source voltage. According to (14) the 
larger the gate resistance, the lower ீௌభ_೘೔೗೗೐ೝ will drop, which 
will result in a higher overlapping loss. Increasing the gate driver 
voltage also could be a potentially solution to reduce the 
switching loss as long as ீௌ does not exceed the maximum ீௌ 
of transistors.  
Current spike on the low side transistor happens in this 
period, and the total charge is ஻௎ௌ. Further analysis 
will be detailed in next section.  
4) P4: Remaining Period 
In this period, both  ஽ௌ and ஽ have finished transition, 
there might be some undamped ringing remaining in the circuit. 
The gate driver capacitor will continue to charge the ܥ
ூௌௌ to the 
rated driving voltage. Very similar to the delay period, ீௌభ is 
derived as (15).  
ீௌభ೘೔೗೗೐ೝቁ∙ቀ
ௌమ
ௌభିௌమ
ௌభ∙௧+
ௌభ
ௌమିௌభ
ௌమ∙௧ቁ+
ௗ௥       （ 15） 
Where, ଵ,ଶ=
±ඨோభమିସಽభ
಴಺ೄೄభ
ିோభ
ଶ∙௅భ
.  
So, when Rଵ<2∙ ට
௅భ
஼಺ೄೄభ
, there will be voltage over shoot 
on ீௌ, which might cause device failure.   
Compared with Si MOSFET, the gate of E-mode GaN 
HEMT is more fragile as most E-HEMT could undertake ~5V 
maximum voltage for ݒ
ீௌ.  
Generation II E-HEMT from GaN Systems have the most 
robust gate which could undertake 10V maximum ீௌ. In order 
to prevent potential gate failure, -3 V/ +6 V ீௌ is suggested for 
GaN Systems’ generation II E-HEMTs. Most of existing Si 
MOSFET/IGBT gate driver chip could be applied.  
B. Switching-off Process 
The state of GaN HEMT as well as the waveform of ஽ௌ, ஽ 
during switching off is shown in Figure 9. The switching off 
process could be also divided into three periods to ease the 
analysis, P1-delay period, P2-dv/dt period, P3-di/dt period. 
3052
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
 
 
Figure.9.a Vds, Ids Waveform During Switching on 
 
Figure. 9.b State of GaN HEMT During Switching off 
1) P1:Delay Period 
Very similar to the delay period of Switching-on process, 
after driver output starts to actively pull down, the ூௌௌௌ begins 
to be discharged exponentially through the lower switch of 
totem pole circuit.  
The 2DEG on-resistance is in creasing as the decrease of 
gate-source voltage as shown in Figure 9. The drain-source 
voltage and drain current does not change in this period. Also, 
the paralleled transistors will not affect each other in this periods.  
ݒ
ீௌభ is expressed as (16). 
௡௘௚)∙(
ௌమ
ௌమିௌభ
ௌభ∙௧+
ିௌభ
ௌమିௌభ
ௌమ∙௧)
 （16） 
Where, ଵ,ଶ=
±ඨோభమିସಽభ
಴಺ೄೄభ
ିோభ
ଶ∙௅భ
, ௡௘௚ is the absolute value of the 
switching off voltage of gate driver circuit.  
This period ends when ௧௛+
ூ೗೚ೌ೏
௚  
2) P2:dv/dt Period 
In this period, as the increase of 2DEG impedance, part of 
the load current (௟௢௔ௗ) begins to charge and discharge high side 
and low side output capacitance (ைௌௌ௧௢௧௔௟).  
The ஽ௌభand ீௌభ (a miller voltage plateauீௌభ೘೔೗೗೐ೝ ,is 
usually observed) of low side HEMT could be derived, as (17) 
and (18).  
ݒ
݁
ష೟
ೃమವಶಸ∙಴ೀೄೄ೟೚೟ೌ೗) （17） 
ீௌభ_೘೔೗೗೐ೝ=
ଵ
ோభ
ீ஽భ∙
ௗ௩ವೄభ
ௗ௧ଵ∙
ீ஽భ∙
ௗమ௩ವೄభ
ௗ௧మீ஽భ∙
ௗమ௩ವೄభ
ௗ௧మ )    ( 1 8 )  
Where, ொௌଵ∙
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧ொௌଶ∙
ௗ௜ವమ
ௗ௧)∙
௓ೞమ
௓ೞభା௓ೞమ
, ଵ=
ௌଵ,  ௌଵ. 
According to (17) and (18), the miller plateau voltage 
(ீௌభ_೘೔೗೗೐ೝ) determines the slew rate of the exponential drain 
and source voltage. The larger the gate resistance, the higher 
ீௌభ_௠௜௟௟௘௥ will go, which will result in a higher overlapping loss. 
Increasing the negative switching off voltage also could be a 
potential solution to reduce the switching loss. When the miller 
plateau voltage is lower than the threshold voltage, all the load 
current will charge the output capacitance, and the switching-off 
loss is minimum (close to zero). 
 This period ends, when the drain-source voltage reaches the 
bus voltage.  
3) P3:di/dt Period 
After the phase voltage is higher than the bus voltage, the 
high side transistor begins to freewheeling. The low side 2DEG 
will be completely depleted in this period. This period ends 
when ݅
஽ଵor ஽ଶreaches ௟௢௔ௗ. The vீௌభ,஽భ,and஽ௌଵ is derived 
as (19), (20) and (21) assuming 
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧=
ௗ௜ವమ
ௗ௧ . 
ீௌభ೘೔೗೗೐ೝ)∙
௦మ∙௘ೞభ೟ି௦భ∙௘ೞమ೟
௦భି௦మ
)
  (19) 
ீௌభ೘೔೗೗೐ೝ)∙
௦మ∙௘ೞభ೟ି௦భ∙௘ೞమ೟
௦భି௦మ
)−
௧௛భ)      ( 2 0 )  
 ௉∙ቀ
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧+
ௗ௜ವమ
ௗ௧ଵ∙
ௗ௜ಸభ
ௗ௧−( LD1 +
LQS1)∙
ௗ௜ವభ
ௗ௧     ( 2 1 )  
Whereଵ,ଶ=
±ඥ௕మିସ௔ି௕
ଶ௔ , ଵ+
ீ) , b=1+
ூௌௌ. 
Voltage overshoot over ஽ௌof lower side transistors will 
happen in this period.  
After both  ஽ௌ and ஽ௌ have finished transition, there might 
be some undamped ringing remaining in the circuit.  
C. Conclusion 
The effects and design rules of various parasitics existing in 
the gate drive loop and power loop, can be concluded as shown 
in Figure 10.  
3053
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
 
III. DESIGN CONSIDERATION OF 240 A / 650 V E-MODE 
GAN HEMT BASED POWER STAGE 
A. Parasitic Inducatance  
As described in last section, the short rising and falling time 
during commutation will result in a high di/dt, which will cause 
a voltage across stray loop in ductance in th e power loop. 
Because of the extremely small C୍ୗୗ of GaN HEMT, a >5 Ohm 
gate resistors sometimes have to be applied slowing down 
transition in order to eliminate the voltage spike on the drain and 
source voltage during switching off, which will definitely 
increase the switching loss. 
Reducing commutation loop inductance to ~sub-nH level, is 
probably the best solution to get rid of voltage spike on Vds 
without compromising on the switching speed. Significant effort 
in power module design has been previously aimed at reducing 
the commutation loop inductance and reducing the drain-source 
overshoot, [6] [10] [11]. 
The parasitic inductance is a function of the magnetic flux 
generated by current as (22). 
I
S d B
IL =Ψ=
 *
                                                    (22)  
According to the law of electromagnetic induction, with the 
multi-layer magnetic-flux-canceling design strategy, the 
parasitics of the trace could be greatly reduced – the direction of 
the commutation current on two adjacent layers are opposite so 
that the generated flux outside the loop are canceling each other.  
Compared to Direct Bonded Copper (DBC) substrate, the 
PCB could easily adopt the multi-layer structure and smaller 
distance between layers to achieve a better magnetic flux 
canceling effect.  
A half bridge power stage consisting of four high-side and 
four low-side GaN HEMTs in parallel rated at 240A/650V has 
been designed as shown in Figure 11.  
 
Figure. 11. Layout of 240A/650V GaN HEMTs based Half Bridge 
On the other hand, the GaNPXTM packaging of GaN Systems 
with no leads or bonding wires as shown in Figure 12 also 
tremendously merits the design. Compared with traditional TO-
247 package, the stray inductance is reduced by >80%.  
 
Figure. 12. GaNpxTM packaging  
 
Figure. 10. Effects and Design Rules of Parasitic Parameters 
3054
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
The half bridge with four GaN HEMTs in parallel is modeled 
in Ansys Q3D, and the power loop and gate-driver loop 
inductance are evaluated by Finite Element Analysis,. The 
commutation loop inductance of the proposed design is only 0.7 
nH, 1/4 of the best E-mode GaN HEMT based power module 
[9].  For each paralleled GaN HEMT, quasi-common source 
inductance is <0.2 nH, and gate drive loop inductance is 4.2 nH. 
B. Parasitic Capacitance  
Parasitic capacitance is another design consideration as 
depicted in Section II. During switch-on process, C
oss as well as 
the reverse recovery charge (as seen in Si/SiC MOSFETs) will 
increase the current spike and switching loss. Generally 
speaking, in hard switching application, the more transistors we 
parallel, the higher switching loss we will have. So, there will be 
an optimum number of paralleled HEMTs to reach the highest 
efficiency for a certain application. 
In Zero Voltage Switching application, during the dead time, 
the reactive energy stored on ma gnetic components begins to 
discharge and charge the parasitic capacitance.  
To secure ZVS, the reactive power has to be higher than the 
stored energy in the parasitic capacitance of GaN HEMTs and 
PCB board and the dead time  loss of GaN HEMTs. On the other 
hand, in order to increase the efficiency of system, the reactive 
power needs to be controlled as close to the required energy as 
possible, which will require a precise modelling of parasitic 
capacitance.   
The output capacitance of GaN HEMT (GS66516T) at 
different voltage is measured by curve tracer. According to (23), 
the equivalent parasitic output capacitance of single GaN HEMT 
at 400V could be derived as 0.28 nF.  
ܥ
௢௦௦௘௤=
஼௢௦௦(௏೏ೞ)∙ௗ௏೏ೞ
రబబೇ
బ
௏೏ೞ
   ( 2 3 )  
Parasitic capacitance of PCB and magnetic components is 
not ignorable compared with the ultra-small Coss of GaN HEMT. 
The parasitic capacitance in a half bridge module is extracted by 
ANSYS Q3D as Figure 13, indicating the parasitic capacitance 
in one leg is 0.6 nF (0.4 nF to BUS+ and 0.2 nF to BUS- node). 
And measured by Impedance Analyzer, inter-winding 
capacitance of transformer is less than 50 pF.  
 
Figure. 13. Parasitic Capacitance Extraction in Q3D 
So, the total parasitic capacita nce of the half-bridge power 
stage is 3.2 nF (1.73 nF to BUS+ node, 1.48 nF to BUS- node). 
As the equivalent circuit of double pulse test circuit and 
switching waveform shown in Figure 14, the current spike 
measured during the hard switching on process in the lower 
switches is contributed by the displacement charge current of the 
parasitic capacitance between voltage jumping point and BUS+ 
node. 
 
Figure. 14. Current Spike Measurement with Double Pulse Test Platform  
The displacement charge form  high side transistors and 
parasitics were measured as shown in Figure 15. The measured 
equivalent capacitance is about 2 nF. The error between 
measurement and estimation is about 13.5%, which is 
reasonable considering the me asurement and simulation 
accuracy. 
 
Figure. 15. Coss Charge @ Different Load Current  
IV. EXPERIMENTAL VERIFICATION 
A half bridge power stage consisting of four high-side and 
four low-side GaN HEMTs in parallel rated at 240 A / 650 V has 
been prototyped as shown in  Figure 16 and has been 
experimentally verified by double pulse test.  
 
Figure. 16. Prototype of 240A/650V GaN HEMTs based Half Bridge 
As shown in Figure 17, reliable hard switching on and off 
are realized at the rated power, 240 A/400 V with clean 
3055
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 8 ===
transition waveforms, while the spike on Vds during switching 
off is only 52 V even with close to 60 V/ns turn-off speed, which 
shows the benefit of low power loop inductance. 
V. CONCLUSION 
 An analytic model of paralleled GaN HEMTs is built to 
understand the effects of parasitics. And the design rules for gate 
driver circuit and layout that effects the parallel operation are 
detailed. 
A half bridge power stage consisting of four high-side and 
four low-side GaN HEMTs in parallel, rated at 240 A/400 V, has 
been prototyped and experimentally verified by double pulse 
test.  
The paralleling techniques in this paper can be scaled up to 
100 kW with proper packaging considerations including thermal 
management and module assembly. 
R
EFERENCES 
[1] Huang, X., Li, Q., Liu, Z., & Lee, F. C.. Analytical loss model of high 
voltage GaN HEMT in cascode configuration. (2014).IEEE Transactions 
on Power Electronics, 29(5), 2208–2219. 
[2] EPC, Lidow, A., & Strydom, J. (2012). eGaN FET Drivers and Layout 
Considerations, 1–7. 
[3] Transphorm, Wang, Z., & Honea, J. (n.d.). Investigation of Driver 
Circuits for GaN HEMTs in Leaded Packages, (LV), 81–87.  
[4] Liu, Z., Huang, X., Lee, F. C., & Li, Q. (2014). Package parasitic 
inductance extraction and simulatio n model development for the high-
voltage cascode GaN HEMT. IEEE Tr ansactions on Power Electronics, 
29(4), 1977–1985.  
[5] Lu..J., Bai.H.,(2016).Design Consideration of Gate Driver Circuits and 
PCB Parasitic Parameters of Paralleled E-Mode GaN HEMTs in Zero-
Voltage-Switching Applications”, APEC, 529 - 535  
[6] Lu, J., Bai, H. K., Averitt, S., Chen , D., & Styles, J. (2015). An E-mode 
GaN HEMTs based three-level bidir ectional DC/DC converter used in 
Robert Bosch DC-grid system. WiPDA 2015 - 3rd IEEE Workshop on 
Wide Bandgap Power Devices and Applications, 334–340. 
http://doi.org/10.1109/WiPDA.2015.7369254 
[7] Wang, Z., Wu, Y., Honea, J., & Zhou, L. (2015). Paralleling GaN HEMTs 
for Diode-free Bridge Power Converters, (c), 752–758. 
[8] Lu, J., Tian, Q., & Bai, H. K. (2015). An Indirect Matrix Converter based 
97 % -efficiency On-board Level 2 Battery Charger Using E-mode GaN 
HEMTs. Welcome to the 3rd IEEE Workshop on Wide Bandgap Power 
Devices and Applications (WiPDA), T11.8011, 351–358. 
[9] F.Luo, Z.Chen, L.Xue, P.Mattavelli, D.Boroyevich, B.Hughes,  “Design 
Considerations for GaN HEMT Multichip Half- bridge Module for  
High-Frequency Power Converters” 
[10] Zhang, X., Haryani, N., Shen, Z., Burgos, R., & Boroyevich, D. (2015). 
Ultra-Low Inductance Phase Leg Design for GaN-Based Three-Phase 
Motor Drive Systems. Proc. Workshop on Wide Bandgap Power Device 
and Applications. 
[11] Kangping, W., Huan, M., Hongchang, L., Yixuan, G., Xu, Y., Xiangjun, 
Z., & Xiaoling, Y. (2015). An Optimized Layout with Low Parasitic 
Inductances for GaN HEMTs Based DC-DC Converter, 948–951. 
[12] Yuancheng Ren, Ming Xu, Jinghai Zhou,  and Fred C. Lee, “Analytical 
Loss Model of Power MOSFET”,
 IEEE transactions on power 
electronics, vol. 21, no. 2, march 2006. 
 
Figure. 17. Double Pulse Test Waveform @240 A/400 V 
3056
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:23:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 