
=== PAGE 1 ===
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 40, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2025 16281
Systematic Efﬁciency-Density Co-Optimization of
100 kW GaN Traction Inverter: Methodology
and Integration
Mingrui Zou , Student Member , IEEE,P e n gS u n , Student Member , IEEE, Zheng Zeng , Member , IEEE,
Yu l e i Wa n g, Student Member , IEEE, Jiakun Gong , Y uxi Liang , and Liang Wang , Student Member , IEEE
Abstract—The increasing pursuit of high efﬁciency and power
density in EV traction inverters is accelerating the deployment
of the wide bandgap device, including silicon carbide (SiC) and
gallium nitride (GaN). As the efﬁciency-density boundary of the
SiC traction inverter has approached its limitation, the traction
inverter utilizing GaN devices, with lower power loss and higher
switching speed, is considered as a promising solution. Focusing
on the GaN traction inverter for EV applications, this article
proposes a design methodology considering the co-optimization of
the pursued efﬁciency and power density objectives. Based on the
created mathematical models of design concerns, including power
loss, dc-link ripple, and thermal resistance, the efﬁciency-density
design domain of the GaN inverter is established, upon which the
optimal design space of the efﬁciency-density is determined through
Pareto frontier analysis. Based on the co-optimization results, a
100 kW / 400 V GaN traction inverter prototype is compactly
integrated, incorporating meticulously designed key components,
including the GaN power module, dc-link capacitor, and heat sink.
Experimental validation conﬁrms the effectiveness of the proposed
co-optimization methodology and demonstrates the feasibility of
the integrated GaN inverter, achieving the high power density 62.1
kW/L and peak efﬁciency 99.3%.
Index Terms —Coordination optimization, gallium nitride
(GaN), high efﬁciency, high power density, integration design,
traction inverter .
I. I NTRODUCTION
D
RIVEN by global energy challenges and semiconductor
technology breakthroughs, electric vehicles (EV) are ex-
periencing unprecedented development [1], [2], [3]. The trac-
tion inverter (see Fig. 1) is the core of energy conversion in
Received 17 March 2025; revised 28 May 2025; accepted 25 June 2025. Date
of publication 1 July 2025; date of current version 27 August 2025. This work
was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China
under Grant 52177169, in part by the Chongqing Research Program of Basic
Research and Frontier Technology under Grant CSTB2024NSCQ-JQX0016, in
part by the Graduate Research and Innovation Foundation of Chongqing under
Grant CYB240023, and in part by the Shanghai Automotive Industry Science
and Technology Development Foundation. Recommended for publication by
Associate Editor B. Singh. (Corresponding author: Zheng Zeng.)
The authors are with the State Key Laboratory of Power Transmis-
sion Equipment Technology, School of Electrical Engineering, Chongqing
University, Chongqing 400044, China (e-mail: zoumingrui@cqu.edu.cn;
sunpeng_96@cqu.edu.cn; zengerzheng@cqu.edu.cn; yulei_wang@cqu.edu.cn;
gonjiakun@cqu.edu.cn; yuxiliang@cqu.edu.cn; wangliangedu@cqu.edu.cn).
Color versions of one or more ﬁgures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TPEL.2025.3584763.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TPEL.2025.3584763
Fig. 1. Exploded structure of traction inverter in EV system.
the EV , regulating the energy ﬂow between the battery and
the motor [4], [5]. Due to the demands of extended driving
range and enhanced vehicle performance, the traction inverter
is continuously pursuing higher efﬁciency and power density
[6], [7], thus accelerating the adoption and development of
wide bandgap (WBG) devices in EV [8], [9], [10]. Some com-
mercialized traction inverters have employed silicon carbide
(SiC) devices to replace traditional silicon (Si) counterparts,
enhancing efﬁciency and power density [11], [12], [13], [14].
However, the efﬁciency-density limitation of the SiC traction
inverter is being approached, and the high cost of devices con-
strains their broader deployment. Compared with SiC, gallium
nitride (GaN) features a faster switching speed, lower power
loss, and cost-reduction potential [15], [16], [17]. Therefore,
the high-capacity GaN traction inverter emerges as a promising
solution to surpass the existing SiC efﬁciency-density bound-
ary, marking the technological frontier of the next-generation
EV .
Several research efforts have been explored for GaN traction
inverters to enhance power density and improve efﬁciency, as
well as to meet the high-power demands of EV traction systems.
Regarding enhancing power density, the volume of the inverter
is compressed through the miniaturization of active and passive
components [18], [19]. To reduce the volume of GaN power
modules, embedded packaging [20], 3D packaging [21], and
integrated gate driver [22], [23] have been explored. Further-
more, some advanced high-density capacitor solutions, such as
stacked ceramic capacitors [24], [25], hybrid electrolytic-ﬁlm
capacitors [26], and active switching capacitors [27],h a v er e -
placed traditional large-sized ﬁlm capacitors in dc-link. Besides,
the current source inverter discards the capacitor in the topol-
ogy [28], [29], which is conducive to miniaturization design.
0885-8993 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence and similar technologi es.
Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index. html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
16282 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 40, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2025
Additionally, the volume of heat sink is signiﬁcantly reduced
through employing high-heat-ﬂux cooling techniques, including
substrate microchannels cooling [30] and 3D printed microjets
cooling [31], etc. Regarding improving efﬁciency, the primary
focus is on reducing power losses at device-level and system-
level. To minimize the switching losses of the GaN device, the
additional p-GaN-layer process reduces the dynamic on-state
resistance [32], and the active gate driver enhances the switching
speed by regulating switching trajectory [33]. Since turn- ON
losses dominate the power losses of GaN devices, achieving zero
voltage switching mode through resonant networks can enhance
the converter efﬁciency [34]. Besides, by applying adaptive
dead-time technology [35], dynamic switching frequency regu-
lation [36], and switching mode sequence control[37], the power
losses under various operating conditions can be effectively
decreased. The adoption of more efﬁcient topologies, such as
the dual-bridge inverter[38] and T-type three-level inverter[39],
[40], is beneﬁcial to the system efﬁciency. Moreover, multiob-
jective optimization methods for power electronic converters
have also been developed [41], [42], [43], providing valuable
references for optimizing the efﬁciency and power density of
GaN-based systems. Regarding expanding power capacity, due
to the limited current capacity of the single GaN device, multiple
devices must be parallel connected to meet the high-power
requirements of EV traction inverter [44]. In general, utilizing
printed circuit board (PCB) to parallel connect GaN devices is a
ﬂexible and cost-effective solution[45]. The parallel connection
of multiple devices increases the demand for heat dissipation,
which can be effectively managed by employing the insulated-
metal-substrate [46] and direct-bonded copper board [47],t o
establish a low-thermal-resistance pathway. In order to reduce
the parasitic inductance in parallel, the direct parallel packaging
of GaN bare chips can improve the parallel performance [48],
[49]. In addition, some other novel packaging concepts have
been introduced into GaN modules, which are conducive to im-
proving the electrical and thermal performance, including silver
sintering [50], ﬂexible PCB [51], double-sided cooling [52],
integrated ﬁlters [53], and center-symmetric layouts [54],e t c .
Thanks to the impetus of these researches, the efﬁciency-density
performance and power capacity of GaN are enhancing, which
is accelerating the adoption of GaN in EV traction inverters.
However, due to the inherent trade-off between efﬁciency and
power density, independent optimization alone cannot achieve
the systematic optimal performance required for GaN invert-
ers to surpass the existing efﬁciency-density limitation. Mean-
while, to meet the 100 kW-class power demand of EV traction
inverters, the high-power integration of GaN devices is still
scarce.
Motivated by these challenges, this article proposes a com-
prehensive design methodology for the efﬁciency-density co-
optimization of high-capacity GaN traction inverter. Based on
the derived analytic model of device power loss, dc-link capac-
itor, and heat sink thermal management, the frequency-based
“efﬁciency-power density” design space for the GaN inverter
is formulated. The Pareto frontier analysis is utilized to iden-
tify the optimal design point in terms of efﬁciency and power
density. Finally, the stepwise design and integration of GaN
Fig. 2. State-of-the-art and trends of EV inverters. (a) Peak power and
(b) volumetric power density.
traction inverter with high efﬁciency and high power density
are conducted.
The rest of this article is organized as follows. The current
technological status, challenges and optimization approaches
of the EV traction inverter are highlighted in Section II. Tak-
ing the power losses, dc-link, and heat sink into account,
the model-based development of an “efﬁciency-power den-
sity” design space and co-optimization methodology for the
GaN inverter are established in Section III. Based on the
co-design results, details of the stepwise design and integra-
tion for the GaN traction inverter are demonstrated in Sec-
tion IV. In Section V, the developed GaN inverter prototype
is experimentally validated. Finally, Section VI concludes this
article.
II. G ANT RACTION INVERTERS:S TATE-OF-THE-ART,M AIN
CHALLENGES AND SYSTEMA TICOPTIMIZA TIONAPPROACHES
A. State-of-the-Art and Trends of EV Traction Inverter
The current development status and trends of EV traction
inverters are illustrated in Fig. 2(a). As the power ratings of
traction inverters continue to increase, this trend is accom-
panied by a rise in volume and total losses. Therefore, the
challenge of jointly enhancing efﬁciency and power density
has become progressively more prominent. The power density
of traction inverters is summarized in Fig. 2(b). It is evident
that the power density of traction inverters can be signiﬁ-
cantly improved through the utilization of SiC and GaN power
devices.
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
ZOU et al.: SYSTEMA TIC EFFICIENCY -DENSITY CO-OPTIMIZA TION OF 100 KW GAN TRACTION INVERTER: METHODOLOGY AND INTEGRA TION 16283
Fig. 3. “Efﬁciency-power density” boundary in EV traction inverters with
various power devices.
Fig. 4. V oltage-current rating distribution across various GaN devices.
Additionally, efﬁciency is another key factor that needs to be
considered simultaneously. The efﬁciency and power density
distribution of traction inverters are depicted in Fig. 3.T h e
results demonstrate that, owing to the superior electrothermal
properties, the WBG devices extends the “efﬁciency-density”
frontier of the EV traction inverters in comparison with Si-based
devices. Due to the high junction temperature tolerance of the
SiC devices and the application development in recent years,
the SiC inverters has performed outstandingly in terms of power
density. However, their efﬁciency has approached the limitation.
Beneﬁting from enhanced semiconductor properties, the GaN
inverters demonstrates superior efﬁciency boundaries and ex-
hibits promising high power density evolutionary trends. Thus,
the GaN traction inverters is progressively pushing the existing
“efﬁciency-density” frontier.
B. Challenges of GaN Traction Inverters for EV Applications
The voltage and current ratings of available GaN devices are
statistically summarized in Fig. 4. On the one hand, the EV
traction inverter imposes relatively high-power level demands,
whereas commercially available GaN devices are rated for low-
power levels, and there is a lack of mature high-current power
module solutions. On the other hand, compared with Si and
SiC devices, the GaN devices offer multiple technical variants
with distinct characteristics. Consequently, for the GaN traction
inverter applications, it is essential to carefully select the GaN
device type and integrate the devices in parallel for the high-
power module.
Furthermore, the volume of traction inverters is primarily
composed of the power module, dc-link, and heat sink. However,
in the current research on GaN inverters, the optimization and
design of each component are usually presented in separate
literature. In practice, the design parameters of these components
are intricately linked to the switching frequency and output
power of the inverter. Meanwhile, due to the dependency on
switching frequency and the inﬂuence of output power, there is
a fundamental trade-off between efﬁciency and power density.
The design space for efﬁciency and power density is bounded by
a fundamental frontier, as shown in Fig.3. Therefore, to promote
higher performance in GaN inverters, it is crucial to uniformly
consider the design of the power module, dc-link, and heat sink
comprehensively.
In light of the above issues, in order to achieve a breakthrough
in efﬁciency-density of the next-generation GaN traction invert-
ers, some challenges need to be overcome.
Challenge 1: How to comprehensively consider the impact
of power module, dc-link capacitor, and heat sink on the
“efﬁciency-power density” of GaN inverters?
Challenge 2: How to achieve the co-optimization of “efﬁciency
and power density” in GaN inverters?
Challenge 3: How to select and integrate GaN devices in parallel
for the high-power traction inverter applications?
C. Systematic Optimization Methodology of GaN Traction
Inverter
To address the challenges currently encountered by GaN
traction inverters, a systematic co-optimization methodology for
“efﬁciency-density,” coupled with an integrated design frame-
work, is proposed. This method accounts for the inﬂuence of
all key components in the traction inverter, starting from the
modeling of power modules, dc-link capacitors, and heatsinks, to
construct a system-level efﬁciency-density design space, within
which co-optimization is achieved. The optimization outcomes
are then used to guide the design of each key component and the
integration of the GaN traction inverter.
The proposed optimization methodology and integration for
GaN traction inverter are systematically summarized and gen-
eralized into a ﬂowchart, as shown in Fig. 5. In Section III,t h e
“efﬁciency-density” co-optimization methodology is developed.
Based on the optimization results, a 100 kW GaN prototype is
stepwise designed and high density integrated in Section IV.
III. M ETHOD OF CO-OPTIMIZA TIONDESIGN FOR EFFICIENCY
AND POWER DENSITY IN GANT RACTION INVERTERS
In this section, the co-optimization methodology for
efﬁciency-power density in GaN traction inverters will be elabo-
rated in detail. First, a loss evaluation model for the GaN inverter
is established, and candidate GaN devices are assessed and
selected. Second, the volume-switching frequency relationship
of the dc-link capacitor and the thermal resistance-switching
frequency constraint of the heat sink are separately formulated.
Finally, based on these models, the “efﬁciency-power density”
design space of the GaN inverter is constructed, and the optimal
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
16284 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 40, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2025
Fig. 5 Flowchart of co-optimization method and integration for GaN traction inverter.
design points for achieving both high efﬁciency and high power
density are identiﬁed through the Pareto frontier analysis.
A. Power Losses Modeling of GaN Traction Inverter
Evaluation of power loss is a critical aspect of inverter design,
as it not only inﬂuences the conversion efﬁciency of the inverter,
but also signiﬁcantly impacts the thermal design of the system.
In this article, the three-phase two-level topology, a fundamental
and widely used conﬁguration for traction inverters in EVs, is
utilized, as depicted in Fig. 6(a). In addition, the dc-link bus
voltage of 400 V and the maximum output power of 100 kW are
taken as the design objectives in this article.
According to the inverter topology, the output power of the
inverter is related to the output voltage and the phase leg currents,
which can be expressed as
Po =
√
3VacIrms=
√
3VacIm/
√
2 (1)
where Po is the output power. Vac is the root mean square
(RMS) value of output line-line voltage. Irms and Im represent
the RMS and amplitude value of the output current for phase-leg,
respectively. The output voltageVac is determined by the dc-link
voltage Vdc, the modulation method, and modulation ratio m.
Considering the classical SPWM modulation shown in Fig.6(b),
the amplitude of phase-leg output current can be written as
Im =
√
6Po
3mVac
= 4Po
3mVdc
(2)
Fig. 6. Schematic of GaN traction inverter. (a) Topology of inverter and
(b) modulation principle of phase-leg.
where m =
√
2 Vac/Vdc is modulation ratio. Based on the
operating conditions of the inverter and the characteristics of
the devices, the power losses can be evaluated.
The power losses of GaN devices consist of conduction loss
and switching loss. To evaluate the losses of GaN devices in the
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
ZOU et al.: SYSTEMA TIC EFFICIENCY -DENSITY CO-OPTIMIZA TION OF 100 KW GAN TRACTION INVERTER: METHODOLOGY AND INTEGRA TION 16285
inverter, the average power losses over one sinusoidal cycle are
consistently used as a standard metric for assessment.
1) Conduction Loss: For high-power level inverters, the loss
calculation is conducted based on a phase-leg switch consisting
of n parallel-connected GaN devices. Additionally, to account
for the impact of the dead time in the phase-leg, the conduction
loss is analyzed and calculated for the entire phase-leg as a whole
[19]. In a phase-leg, the conduction loss of an individual GaN
device in the high-side switch S 1 or the low-side switch S4 can
be expressed respectively as
{
Pcon.H = I2
m
n2
(1
8 + mcosϕ
3π
)
Rds.on
Pcon.L = I2
m
n2
(1
8 −mcosϕ
3π
)
Rds.on
(3)
where Rds.on is ON-state resistance of GaN device. In particular,
due to the self-commutated reverse conduction mechanism of
GaN HEMT, the increased conduction loss during dead-time
needs to be taken into consideration. The conduction loss of a
phase-leg during the dead time can be represented as
Pcon.dt = tdtfsw
π
(π
2RF
I2
m
n2 +2VF
Im
n
)
(4)
where VF and RF stand for equivalent reverse voltage drop and
reverse conduction resistance, respectively. tdt is dead-time. fsw
is switching frequency. Considering the dead-time, the portion of
the aforementioned conduction loss occurring during this period
should be reduced accordingly for the necessary adjustment.
This process can be described as
Pcon.red = 1
2
I2
m
n2 Rds.ontdtfsw. (5)
Based on (3) to (5), the total conduction loss of a phase-leg
with n parallel GaN devices can be expressed as
Pcon = n(Pcon.H +Pcon.L +Pcon.td −Pcon.red). (6)
2) Switching Loss: The losses during the switching transient
of the device include turn-ON loss, turn-OFF loss, output capaci-
tance loss and gate loss. The turn-ON and turn-OFF losses can be
respectively written as
{
Psw.on = Eon
fsw
π
VdcIm
nVnIn
Psw.oﬀ= Eoff
fsw
π
VdcIm
nVnIn
(7)
where Eon and Eoﬀ are the turn- ON and turn- OFF losses of
the device under the rated test conditions, respectively. Vn
and In represent the rated voltage and current of the device,
respectively. Operating as a free continuation device, the reverse
recovery loss can be yielded as
Prec = Erec
fsw
π
VdcIm
nVnIn
(8)
where Erec is the recovery loss of the device at the rated test
conditions. With the exception of Cascode GaN devices, the
reverse recovery loss in other GaN HEMT is negligible because
the reverse recovery charge is almost zero. Along with the
switching transient, the charging and discharging loss of the
output capacitor can be expressed as
Poss = VdcQossfsw (9)
where Qoss is the output charge of the GaN device. The corre-
sponding loss induced by the charging and discharging of the
gate charge can be expressed as
Pg =( VC −VE)Qg.totfsw (10)
where Qg.tot is the total gate charge of the GaN device. VC and
VE are the turn- ON and turn-OFF driving voltages, respectively.
According to (7) to (10), the total switching loss of a switch with
n parallel GaN devices can be written as
Psw = n(Psw.on +Psw.oﬀ+Prec +Poss +Pg). (11)
3) Total Power Loss: Based on (6) and (11), in a phase-leg,
the total power loss in its high side and low side devices can be
expressed as
Ploss.ph = Pcon +2Psw. (12)
In addition to the power devices, the dc-link capacitor loss
Ploss.dc should be considered in the inverter loss analysis
Ploss.dc = I2
c.rms · ESR(f) (13)
where Ic,rms is the ripple current RMS value of the dc-link
capacitor. ESR (f) is the frequency-dependent equivalent series
resistance of the capacitor, which can be taken from datasheets
at the principal ripple frequency.
Therefore, the total power loss of the three-phase inverter can
be expressed as
Ploss.inv =3 Ploss.ph +Ploss.dc =3 Pcon +6Psw +Ploss.dc.
(14)
B. Selection and Evaluation of GaN Devices
1) Candidate GaN Devices: Selection of the appropriate
GaN power device according to the design objectives of the
inverter is an essential step for the subsequent design. First of
all, the device is required to meet the voltage and current stress
requirements. For voltage stress, the 650 V nominal voltage
of conventional GaN devices already meets the 400 V dc-link
voltage requirement. However, for current stress, according to
(2), the current amplitude is Im = 370 A, and currently, there are
no commercially available GaN products that meet this current
rating. Therefore, the proposed GaN inverter requires a solution
with multiple GaN devices in parallel. In order to reduce the
number of chips in parallel to reduce the size of the power
module, GaN devices with high current rating are therefore
prioritized. Among the existing commercially GaN HEMTs,
GS66516T (GaN Systems) and V08TC65S1A2 (VisIC) are the
devices with the largest current rating in E-mode and D-mode,
respectively, and TP65H015G5WS (Transphorm) is the Cascode
device with the largest current rating. Thus, the above three
devices are taken as candidates, and their information is given
in Table I.
2) Number of Parallel Devices: Based on the phase-leg cur-
rent amplitude Im, and the current rating of the devices, the
number of GaN devices in parallel in a phase-leg switch can be
determined. In addition, thermal and current margins should also
be considered to expand the safe operating area and improve the
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
16286 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 40, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2025
TABLE I
PARAMETERS OF CANDIDA TEGAND EVICES
Fig. 7. Total power loss of GaN devices at different output powers and
switching frequencies.
capability to handle overload conditions. Considering the der-
ating of device current due to increased operating temperature,
the number of parallels can be calculated as
n =
⌈ImkTkI
ID
⌉
(15)
where kT = ID.@25◦C / ID.@ 100◦C is the current derating factor
with temperature rise of device. kI is the current margin factor,
which is taken as 1.2 in this design. Therefore, the number of
parallel devices required for candidate GaN devices are n1 =
3 (Device 1, V08TC065S1), n2 = 10 (Device 2, GS66516T),
n3 = 8 (Device 3, TP65H015G5WS).
3) Power Loss and Efﬁciency: Based on the above power
losses assessment model and the number of parallel devices,
the total power losses of the candidate GaN devices at different
output powers and switching frequencies are given in Fig. 7.
Device 1 maintains the lowest total power loss under different
operating conditions. In addition, the various power losses of
candidate devices at full load conditions are calculated and
shown in Fig. 8. The conduction losses Pcon of each candidate
device are relatively similar. Meanwhile, for switching loss,
device 1 has the lowest turn- ON loss, which is only 53% of that
of device 2. The turn- OFF loss Psw.oﬀ of device 1 and device 2
are similar and signiﬁcantly lower than that of device 3. Device 3
experiences reverse recovery loss, whereas device 1 and device
Fig. 8. Comparison of various power losses in candidate GaN devices under
full-load conditions.
Fig. 9. Detailed power loss comparison of candidate GaN devices.
2 have little to none. Overall, device 1 exhibits the lowest total
power loss among candidate GaN devices.
4) Comprehensive Comparison of GaN Devices: The com-
prehensive comparison results of candidate GaN devices are
given in Fig.9 to help in selecting a suitable device for designing
high density inverters. Device 1 features the fewest parallel
connections, aiding in the reduction of parasitic inductance and
facilitating current balancing. Besides, the total areas of the
parallel devices are calculated. It is found that the total area
of the device 3 conﬁguration is the largest, approximately twice
that of the device 1 or device 2 conﬁgurations. Moreover, device
1 demonstrates the lowest total power loss and achieves the
highest theoretical full-load peak efﬁciency of 99.64%. Con-
sequently, summarizing the above comparisons, the device 1
(VisIC, V08TC065S1) is selected for the inverter design in this
article.
C. fsw-Cdc-V olume Modeling of DC-Link Capacitor
The dc-link capacitor in the inverter stabilizes the dc-link volt-
age and absorbs the ripple current. Thus, the design of dc-link
capacitor needs to simultaneously satisfy the requirements of
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
ZOU et al.: SYSTEMA TIC EFFICIENCY -DENSITY CO-OPTIMIZA TION OF 100 KW GAN TRACTION INVERTER: METHODOLOGY AND INTEGRA TION 16287
Fig. 10. Graph of function q(m,ϕ)inm ∈(0,1),ϕ∈(0,π/2).
ripple voltage and ripple current, which can be expressed as
Cdc =m a x (Cv,Ci) (16)
where Cv and Ci are the minimum capacitance to support ripple
voltage and ripple current, respectively. The calculation of Cv
and Ci are derived as follows
1) Capacitance for Ripple V oltage: DC-link capacitors are
essential for absorbing voltage ripple to ensure the stability of
the dc voltage. The ripple voltage ΔVdc, pp is related to the
peak-to-peak chargeΔQc of the capacitor [55], [56], which can
be expressed as
ΔVdc,pp = ΔQc
Cv
= Im
Cvfsw
q(m,ϕ) (17)
where q (m, ϕ) is a coefﬁcient function of the capacitor charge
with respect to the modulation ratio m and power factor angleϕ.
Considering the effective operating area of the EV inverter, i.e.,
m /2208(0, 1), ϕ/2208(0, π/2), the graph of the function q (m, ϕ)i s
displayed in Fig.10. In order to meet the maximum voltage ripple
requirements, the worst operating conditions are obtained when
m= 1,ϕ=π/2, while considering the margin of voltage ripple,
the capacitance to support ripple voltage Cv can be expressed as
Cv ≈ Im
5fswΔVdc,pp
. (18)
In this design, a 5% ripple voltage margin is considered, i.e.,
ΔVdc,pp = 5%Vdc.
2) Capacitance for Ripple Current: The minimum ripple
current capability Ic.rms required by the dc-link capacitor is
determined by the ac output current amplitude Im, modulation
ratio m, and power factor angle ϕ[25], [56], which can be
calculated as
Ic.rms = Im
√2m
[√
3
4π+cos2 (ϕ)
(√
3
π − 9
16m
)]
. (19)
Owing to the superior reliability and cost-effectiveness of ﬁlm
capacitors, they are preferentially employed in the dc-link of
EV inverter. The ripple current tolerance and capacitance of
ﬁlm capacitors from TDK, Kemet, and Vishay are concluded
and illustrated in Fig. 11(a). Based on the statistical analysis
Fig. 11. Characteristics of various capacitors. (a) Current-capacitance and
(b) capacitance-volume.
TABLE II
PARAMETERS OF CAPACITOR CURRENT-CAPACIT ANCE AND
CAPACITANCE-VOLUME MODELS
of commercially available capacitors, it is evident that there
is a positive correlation between ripple current tolerance and
capacitance. This relationship can be ﬁtted and expressed as
Ci = kC1Ic.rms +kC2 (20)
where kC1 and kC2 denote the current-capacitance coefﬁcients.
According to the samples show in Fig. 11(a), these coefﬁcients
can be estimated, as given in Table II. It is noted that TDK
exhibits the highest current-capacitance density among the ﬁlm
capacitor candidates. This characteristic will be advantageous
in reducing the capacitance necessary for ripple currents, con-
sequently minimizing the overall volume of the capacitor.
3) V olume of Capacitors: The volume of the dc-link capac-
itor is dependent on both rated voltage and capacitance, which
are constrained by the manufacturing processes and ﬁlm insula-
tion distances. The relationships of capacitance-volume-voltage
from manufacturers TDK, Kemet, and Vishay, are shown in
Fig. 11(b). The capacitance is positively correlated with vol-
ume/voltage, which can be expressed as
vc =( kV1Cdc +kV2)Vn (21)
where vc is the volume of the capacitor. kV1 and kV2 are
coefﬁcients of calculating capacitor volume. Vn is rated voltage
of the capacitor. According to the samples shown in Fig. 11(b),
these coefﬁcients can be estimated, as given in Table II.
Based on (16), (18), and (20), the ripple voltage capacitance
Cv and ripple current capacitanceCi can be computed for various
switching frequency operating scenarios. These calculations
enable the establishment of “switching frequency-capacitance”
boundary for the dc-link capacitance, i.e., fsw-Cdc,a ss h o w ni n
Fig. 12(a). It can be observed that the dc-link capacitance is
dominated by the ripple voltage capacitance Cv at low frequen-
cies. As the frequency rises, the dc-link capacitance gradually
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 8 ===
16288 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 40, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2025
Fig. 12. (a) Current-capacitance and (b) capacitance-volume characteristics
of commercial capacitors.
Fig. 13. Thermal circuit model of phase-leg with n parallel chips.
decreases and ultimately becomes deﬁned by the current rip-
ple capacitance Ci at high frequencies. According to (21),t h e
“switching frequency-volume” boundary of the dc-link capaci-
tor, i.e., fsw-vc, can be obtained in Fig. 12(b). In conclusion, the
fsw-Cdc-vc model for the dc-link capacitor has been established,
which can be applicable for calculating the capacitance value and
estimating the volume of the dc-link capacitor in GaN inverters.
Among the results, the TDK ﬁlm capacitor exhibits the lowest
volume boundary and is therefore selected for this design.
D. fsw-Rth-V olume Modeling of Heat Sink
The power losses Ploss generated by the GaN devices in the
inverter are dissipated via the heat sink, ensuring that the chip
junction temperature Tj remains below the maximum allowable
junction temperature Tj.max, thereby maintaining device ther-
mal stability. The thermal resistance of the thermal path consists
of the junction-to-case resistance Rth.jc of the GaN device, the
thermal interface material (TIM) resistanceRth.TIM, and the heat
sink resistance Rth.hs. Based on the path of heat dissipation, for
a phase-leg with n parallel devices, the thermal circuit model is
shown in Fig. 13.
In practice, device power loss Ploss.i and heat sink thermal
resistance Rth.hs play signiﬁcant roles in junction temperatureTj
due to the basically ﬁxed thermal resistance of device junction-
to-case Rth.jc and TIM Rth.TIM. Device power loss vary with
TABLE III
STRUCTURE SIZE AND MA TERIALCHARACTERISTIC PARAMETERS FOR
THERMAL MODELS
switching frequency and output power. Based on the power loss
model presented in Section II-A, the power loss of single GaN
device can be formulated as
Ploss.i = 1
2nPloss.ph (22)
where i= 1, 2, …, n denotes the device index in a phase-leg with
n parallel devices. The relationship between the device junction
temperature Tj and heat sink temperature Th can be denoted as
Tj.i −Th = Ploss.i(Rth.jc.i +Rth.TIM.i). (23)
Through the thermal circuit model, the relationship between
the heat sink temperature Th and the cooling ﬂuid temperature
Tf can be derived as
Th −Tf = Rth.hs
2n∑
i=1
Ploss.i. (24)
Substituting (22) and (24) into (23), the thermal resistance
limit constraint of the heat sink can be obtained as
Rth.hs ≤Tj.max −Tf −Ploss.i(Rth.jc +Rth.TIM)
2n∑
i=1
Ploss.i
. (25)
In the thermal model, the junction-to-case thermal resistance
and the maximum junction temperature of the GaN device can
be obtained from the device datasheet, i.e., Rth.jc = 0.1 K/W,
Tj.max = 150 °C. The structural size and material characteristics
of each layer in the thermal model are detailed in Table III.T h e
thermal resistance Rth.TIM of the TIM layer can be calculated
as
Rth.TIM = hTIM
λTIMATIM
. (26)
The thermal resistance Rth.hs of the heat sink plays a crucial
role in determining the overall heat dissipation performance of
the system, especially considering the relatively ﬁxed thermal
resistances of the device Rth.jc and the TIM Rth.TIM. Based on
(25), the distribution of thermal resistance Rth.hs and junction
temperature Tj under different switching frequencies, i.e., fsw-
Tj-Rth.hs, is shown in Fig. 14(a). In practical design considera-
tions, an adequate temperature margin needs to be guaranteed,
so the maximum operational junction temperature Tj.max is set
at 125 °C.
Upon collecting the data, the thermal resistance and volume
of the heat sink are intricately related to the heat dissipation
method. Some typical samples of natural air cooling, forced air
cooling, and liquid cooling are presented in Fig. 14(b). Under
the same heat dissipation method, the volume of the heatsink
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 9 ===
ZOU et al.: SYSTEMA TIC EFFICIENCY -DENSITY CO-OPTIMIZA TION OF 100 KW GAN TRACTION INVERTER: METHODOLOGY AND INTEGRA TION 16289
Fig. 14. Thermal resistance modeling of heat sink. (a) fsw-Tj-Rth.hs distribu-
tion and (b) Rth.hs-volume relationship for different cooling methods.
TABLE IV
PARAMETERS OF THERMAL RESISTANCE-VOLUME MODELS
vhs is negatively correlated with its thermal resistance Rth.hs.
As the volume of the heat sink increases, its heat dissipation
performance enhances, and its thermal resistance decreases.
B a s e do nt h ed a t ai nF i g .14(b), the relationship between the
thermal resistance Rth.hs of the heat sink and the volume vhs of
the heat sink is ﬁtted and can be approximated as
vhs = khs(Rth.hs)αhs (27)
where khs and αhs are coefﬁcients of calculating heat sink
volume, respectively. The coefﬁcients for volume calculation
associated with different types of heat sinks are given in TableIV.
It is evident that, under identical thermal resistance condi-
tions, the volume of the heat sink required for liquid cooling is
minimized. Consequently, liquid cooling heat sinks are highly
effective in enhancing the power density of inverters and are
given primary consideration in EV . In summary, based on the
models depicted in Fig. 14(a) and (b), the “switching frequency-
thermal resistance-volume” constraint of the heat sink, i.e.,
fsw-Rth.hs-vhs, is established.
E. Efﬁciency-Density Space and Pareto Frontier
Co-Optimization
Based on the power loss model of inverter, the fsw-Cdc-vc
model of dc-link capacitor, and fsw-Rth.hs-vhs constraint of heat
sink, the “efﬁciency-power density” ( η–ρ) model for the GaN
traction inverter is formulated.
1) Efﬁciency of GaN Inverter: According to the power loss
model, inverter efﬁciency ηcan be expressed as
η= Po
Pin
= Po
Po +Ploss.inv
(28)
where Pin is the dc-link input power. Po represents the rated
output power as speciﬁed in the system design. The total in-
verter power loss Ploss.inv, which was previously discussed in
(14), exhibits a signiﬁcant dependence on both the switching
frequency fsw, and the rated power Po, denoted as Ploss.inv (fsw,
Po). Therefore, based on (14) and (28), the inverter efﬁciencyη
can be characterized as a function of switching frequency and
rated power, denoted as η(fsw, Po).
2) Power Density of GaN Inverter: The volume of the GaN
inverter is primarily determined by the GaN power module, dc-
link capacitor, and heat sink. The power density ρis given by
ρ= Po
vtot
= Po
vM +vc +vhs +vother
(29)
where vtot is the total volume of inverter. vother is the additional
volume attributed to other components and is considered a ﬁxed
value. Considering the relationship between the rated current
and the number of parallel-connected devices, the volume of the
power module is correlated with the rated powerPo, i.e.,vM (Po).
B a s e do nt h efsw-Cdc-vc model for the dc-link, the volume of the
dc-link capacitor is determined by the switching frequency and
the rated power, i.e.,vc (fsw, Po). According to thefsw-Rth.hs-vhs
constraint relationship of the heat sink, the volume of the heat
sink is related to the switching frequency and the rated power, i.e,
vhs (fsw, Po). Therefore, the power density of the GaN inverter
is determined by the switching frequency and the rated power,
denoted as ρ(fsw, Po).
3) Efﬁciency-Power Density Design Space: Based on the
aforementioned analysis, both efﬁciency ηand power density
ρof GaN inverters are interdependent functions of switching
frequency fsw and rated power Po, which can be collectively
expressed as
{
η= fη(fSW,Po)
ρ= fρ(fSW,Po) (30)
The “efﬁciency-power density” distribution of the GaN trac-
tion inverter, under varying switching frequencies (1 to 200 kHz)
and rated power (1 to 100 kW), is illustrated in the fsw–Po
operating space, as depicted in Fig. 15(a). It can be observed
that the inverter exhibits excellent efﬁciency and power density
in certain regions. However, the optimal “efﬁciency-power den-
sity” design point is inconvenient to determine under the fsw–
Po coordinate. Therefore, the relationship between efﬁciency,
power density and switching frequency is re-expressed in the
η–ρ–fsw space, as shown in Fig. 15(b).T h eη–ρupper convex
envelope clearly identiﬁes the Pareto frontier. The knee point of
this frontier corresponds to the optimal design pointfsw.opt = 16
kHz, where both efﬁciency and power density are maximized.
Additionally, the 3D space representing theη–ρ–fsw relationship
is shown in Fig. 15(c). This multidimensional representation
reveals the trend variations in design objectives through their
orthogonal projections.
1) Front View Projection: Fig. 15(d) depicts the fsw–ηre-
lationship under rated power conditions, demonstrat-
ing the efﬁciency degradation trend at higher switching
frequencies.
2) Top View Projection: Fig. 15(e) illustrates the fsw–ρrela-
tionship, showing a distinct peak power density achievable
at fsw.opt = 16 kHz.
Notably, the Pareto-optimal solution lies at this critical fre-
quency pointfsw.opt, where the theoretical maximum power den-
sity (ρmax.theory = 80 kW/L) is achieved while maintaining an
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 10 ===
16290 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 40, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2025
Fig. 15. GaN inverter efﬁciency-power density design space. (a) Efﬁciency-power density distribution at varying switching frequencies and rated p owers.
(b) Pareto frontier analysis of efﬁciency-power density. (c) 3D design space visualization of η–ρ–fsw relationships. (d) fsw –ηprojection at rated power conditions.
(e) fsw -ρprojection at rated power conditions.
TABLE V
OPTIMIZED DESIGN PARAMETERS OF GANI NVERTER
exceptional theoretical peak efﬁciency ( ηmax.theory = 99.5%).
Based on the co-design, the parameters of the proposed GaN
traction inverter are given in Table V.
IV . INTEGRA TION OF GANT RACTION INVERTER:P OWER
MODULE,D C - LINK,H EA TSINK, AND PROTOTYPE
The GaN inverter prototype is fabricated and integrated in
this section. The design and manufacture of each component are
based on the co-optimization results in SectionIII, with fsw.opt =
16 kHz, Po = 100 kW. The details of the design and integration
are elaborated as follows.
A. Integration of High-Power GaN Module
As a result of the selection of GaN devices, a direct-drive
D-mode GaN device V08TC65S1A2 from VisIC Technology
is employed in the traction inverter design. Based on the co-
design results, to achieve the target power level Po = 100 kW,
a half-bridge unit is implemented by paralleling three GaN
devices (V08TC65S1A2). The three-phase inverter topology,
composed of three half-bridge modules, offers a ﬂexible and
easily integrated solution.
1) Planar Layout of GaN Power Module: The layout and
form factor of the module have been meticulously designed
based on several critical considerations. First, the dimensions of
the half-bridge module must be carefully designed to accommo-
date the spatial requirements for six GaN devices while ensuring
sufﬁcient spacing between the chips. Second, considering the
high power density of the integrated half-bridge module, an
“I-shaped” layout of parallel chips is employed to achieve a
more compact inverter design. Third, the outer contour of the
GaN module is designed with reference to existing commercial
power modules, ensuring compatibility with standard installa-
tion and application requirements. Based on the area of the GaN
device (21 mm × 23 mm) and the number of parallel devices
(n = 3), the width and power terminal conﬁguration of the
designed module are modeled after the EconDual packaging.
The GaN devices are integrated into the power module using a
PCB as the interconnection carrier. To enhance current-carrying
capacity and reduce parasitic inductance, copper blocks are
embedded in the PCB for the dc +, dc–, and ac power paths.
The planar layout of the designed power module is illustrated in
Fig. 16(a) and (b). The current density distribution is obtained
through the ﬁnite-element analysis (FEA) simulation, as shown
in Fig. 16(c). Based on the simulation results, the parasitic
inductance of the power loop in the designed power module is
6.4 nH.
2) V ertical Structure of GaN Power Module: The designed
power module features a vertically integrated “Sandwich” struc-
ture, as shown in Fig.17(a). The structure consists of three layers,
from top to bottom: the driver isolation stage, the driver output
stage, and the power stage. The power stage is integrated onto
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 11 ===
ZOU et al.: SYSTEMA TIC EFFICIENCY -DENSITY CO-OPTIMIZA TION OF 100 KW GAN TRACTION INVERTER: METHODOLOGY AND INTEGRA TION 16291
Fig. 16. Designed GaN power module layout and FEA-based simulation.
(a) Top view, (b) bottom view, and (c) current density distribution.
Fig. 17. Designed GaN power module. (a) V ertical structure schematic dia-
gram and (b) fabricated prototype.
the bottom surface of the PCB module, making direct contact
with the heat sink to minimize the thermal resistance of the
thermal path. The driver output stage is integrated onto the
top surface of the PCB module, thereby minimizing the parasitic
inductance in the gate loop as much as possible and achieving
a high degree of integration. The gate loop is carefully laid
out, with the projection of driver output on the PCB nearly
overlapping the gate and source pads of the GaN device. The
output of the driver totem-pole is directly connected to the GaN
gate through PCB vias, ensuring a gate drive path length of
less than 2 mm. Based on the FEA, the loop inductance of the
gate drive path is as low as 1.4 nH. Moreover, the decoupling
Fig. 18. Parameter design and optimization of the pin-ﬁn heat sink.
(a) Deﬁnition of structural parameters. (b) Simulation results under different
values of d and r. (c) ﬁtted thermal resistance surface within the design domain.
capacitors and RC snubber circuits are also integrated into the
PCB module. The driver isolation stage is implemented on a
daughter-board at the top of the GaN module, connected to the
GaN module via Pin headers, ensuring the delivery of driving
signals and isolated power supply. The fabricated prototype of
the designed GaN module is shown in Fig. 17(b).
B. Design of Low Thermal Resistance Liquid Cooling Heat
Sink
Based on the optimization outcomes from the co-design pro-
cess, the heat sink of the GaN inverter utilizes the liquid cooling
solution. The pin-ﬁn liquid cooling is selected for this design
due to its high heat ﬂux and high density, as well as its superior
performance in commercial power modules. Optimizing the lay-
out of the pin-ﬁn array can effectively enhance heat dissipation
performance. The geometry of the pin-ﬁn structure is primarily
deﬁned by two parameters: the pin spacing d and radius r,a s
illustrated in Fig. 18(a). Considering manufacturing feasibility
and referencing typical values from commercial pin-ﬁn designs,
the design range for the pin-ﬁn parameters is set as: 2 mm ≤
d ≤ 8 mm, 0.5 mm ≤ r ≤ 2 mm. To avoid design conﬂicts,
such as pin overlap, a constraint must be applied to the design:
r < d / 2. The pin height, which has relatively little inﬂuence
on thermal performance, is ﬁxed at a typical value of 5.5 mm.
Starting from a set of typical commercial values ( d = 5 mm,
r = 1 mm) as the initial parameters, FEA-based simulations
are conducted for pin-ﬁn heat sinks with varying pin radius
r and spacing d. The corresponding thermal resistances are
extracted, and the simulation results are shown in Fig. 18(b).
Based on the simulation results, regression analysis is performed
to ﬁt a parametric surface of the heat sink thermal resistance
within the design domain, as shown in Fig. 18(c). Due to the
high heat ﬂux capability of pin-ﬁn liquid cooling, the thermal
design constraints are generally satisﬁed across the design space.
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 12 ===
16292 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 40, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2025
Fig. 19. Designed heat sink prototype and its FEA-based simulation. (a) Pin-
Fin cooling plate, (b) water channel, and (c) thermal distribution.
However, selecting the lowest point on the ﬁtted surface can
further enhance heat sink performance. Therefore, considering
manufacturing tolerances and design constraints, the optimized
pin-ﬁn parameters of d= 4.2 mm, r= 1.2 mm are adopted near
the surface minimum.
The designed heat sink consists of two main components: a
pin-ﬁn cooling plate and a water channel, as shown in Fig. 19(a)
and (b), respectively. The pin-ﬁn cooling plate is directly inter-
faced with the heat dissipation surface of GaN devices, establish-
ing a thermal conduction pathway with low thermal resistance.
The pin-ﬁn design area encompasses the entire region beneath
the GaN devices layout of the power module. Furthermore,
the heat sink is designed with multiple precision-engineered
mechanical mounting holes to facilitate convenient and secure
installation and fastening. V alidated through FEA-based simu-
lation models, the heatsink demonstrates a thermal resistance
of 0.029 K/W, meeting the thermal resistance design require-
ments under the maximum junction temperature constraint of
co-design, i.e., Rth.hs ≤0.135 K/W (according to SectionIII-D).
Under a 100 kW full-load current condition, the GaN device
reaches a steady-state junction temperature of 86.7 °C. The ther-
mal simulation results of the temperature distribution are shown
in Fig. 19(c).
C. Integration of High V olume Density DC-Link
Through the calculations and comparisons in the Section III,
the TDK capacitors are employed in the dc-link. Based on
the co-design results, the dc-link capacitor exceeds 484 μFt o
ensure sufﬁcient absorption of current ripples and support for the
dc-link voltage. Furthermore, considering the dc-link capacitor
Fig. 20. Designed DC-link capacitor. (a) Prototype. (b) Current distribution
FEA- based simulation. (c) Measured impedance parameters.
vertically positioned beneath the module and heatsink, its pro-
jection area should closely match the footprint of the three-phase
power module. This design ensures that the GaN inverter system
attains high power density and a compact form factor. Therefore,
based on the datasheet of the TDK ﬁlm capacitor [57],t h e
selection and design are as follows: with the voltage rating of 500
V@85 °C, 40μF capacitors are arranged in a 3×3 conﬁguration,
and 22 μF capacitors are arranged in a 1 ×6 conﬁguration. This
design achieves a total capacitance of 492 μF( ≥484 μF) with
dimensions of 150 mm × 124 mm × 40 mm, thereby fulﬁlling
the speciﬁed requirements for dc-link capacitance. Furthermore,
in the dc-link design, the input terminals, output terminals, and
PCB layout, all adopt a stack-up design for dc+ and dc– to ensure
minimal parasitic inductance. The fabricated prototype of the dc-
link capacitor is shown in Fig. 20(a). The FEA-based simulation
results of the dc-link current density distribution are shown in
Fig. 20(b). Finally, the designed dc-link capacitor is measured
using an impedance analyzer, with the resulting test curve shown
in the Fig. 20(c). The measured capacitance is 489 μF, meeting
the design target, while the parasitic inductance is as low as
13.4 nH.
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 13 ===
ZOU et al.: SYSTEMA TIC EFFICIENCY -DENSITY CO-OPTIMIZA TION OF 100 KW GAN TRACTION INVERTER: METHODOLOGY AND INTEGRA TION 16293
Fig. 21. Designed GaN traction inverter. (a) Prototype and (b) 3D exploded
view.
Fig. 22. Installation of designed GaN traction inverter into a housing.
D. High Density Integration of GaN Traction Inverter
The designed GaN traction inverter is composed of GaN
power modules, a dc-link capacitor, and a liquid cooling heat
sink, all of which are vertically integrated into a compact stack.
The prototype and exploded view of the designed GaN traction
inverter are shown in Fig. 21(a) and (b), respectively. This
integrated approach can enhance the compactness of the inverter
prototype, thereby ensuring a high power density. The volume
of the GaN traction inverter prototype, calculated based on its
external contour, is 1.61 L. At the rated output power of 100
kW, the power density of the prototype is 62.1 kW/L. Addi-
tionally, Fig. 22 illustrates a demonstration of the assembled
GaN inverter within a commercial traction inverter housing.
Finally, the volume and weight distribution of various compo-
nents in the GaN traction inverter prototype are summarized
in Fig. 23.
Fig. 23. Designed GaN traction inverter. (a) V olume distribution. (b) Weight
distribution.
V. E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND ANAL YSES
This section conducts switching characteristic tests on the
designed GaN power module and performs power loading
tests along with efﬁciency evaluations on the GaN trac-
tion inverter prototype. These experiments validate the ef-
ﬁciency and correctness of the proposed “efﬁciency-power
density” co-design methodology, as well as demonstrate
the feasibility and potential of the GaN traction inverter
prototype.
A. Comprehensive Assessment of Dynamic Switching
Performance for Designed GaN Module
The designed GaN power module, serving as the pivotal com-
ponent of the GaN inverter prototype, necessitates dynamic char-
acteristic evaluation across a range of conditions. A representa-
tive set of dynamic switching waveforms is shown in Fig. 24(a).
Under a dc-link voltage Vdc = 400 V and a junction temperature
Tj = 25 °C, Fig. 24(b) illustrates the measured turn-ON and turn-
OFF trajectories of the GaN power module for load currents rang-
ing from 150 to 600 A. Besides, under the conditions of load cur-
rents Id = 600 A and junction temperature Tj = 25 °C, Fig.24(c)
presents the experimental switching trajectories for various dc-
link voltages ranging from 200 to 400 V . It can be observed that
the GaN module exhibits extremely fast switching speed, with
current rise/fall times within 15 ns. Additionally, the switching
time increases with the increasing load current and dc-link
voltage.
Furthermore, the switching waveforms of the GaN module
at various junction temperatures Tj from 25 to 125 °C, while
maintaining the dc-link voltage Vdc = 400 V and load current
Id = 600 A, are shown in Fig. 24(d). The test results show that
as the junction temperature Tj rises, the turn- ON speed slightly
decreases, whereas the turn- OFF remains virtually unaffected.
Therefore, switching losses are also inﬂuenced by the junction
temperature.
The measurement results of the switching loss varying with
junction temperature under different load currents are shown
in Fig. 25(a) and (b).T h et u r n -ON loss increases with the
rise of junction temperature, while the turn- OFF loss changes
slightly. The turn- ON loss exhibits a signiﬁcant increase as
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 14 ===
16294 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 40, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2025
Fig. 24. (a) Representative switching waveforms of the fabricated GaN power
module at 400 V/600 A, and measured switching behaviors under different.
(b) Load currents. (c) DC-link voltages. (d) Junction temperatures.
the junction temperature rises, whereas the turn- OFF loss re-
mains relatively unchanged. Furthermore, as the load cur-
rent increases, the dependence of the loss on the junction
temperature becomes increasingly signiﬁcant. Therefore, op-
timal heat dissipation and a low operation junction temper-
ature are beneﬁcial for enhancing the efﬁciency of the GaN
inverter.
Fig. 25. Measured (a) turn- ON and (b) turn-OFF losses of GaN power module
under different load currents and junction temperatures.
Fig. 26. Topology of power test circuit.
TABLE VI
PARAMETER SETUP OF TEST RIG
B. Performance Evaluation of the Designed GaN Inverter
Under Operational Conditions
To assess the load-carrying performance of the designed GaN
inverter prototype, a power pump-back circuit based on the
front-to-front topology is utilized for power testing, as shown
in Fig. 26. Meanwhile, the test bench has been set up, as shown
in Fig. 27, and its parameter conﬁguration is given in Table VI.
Startup and Shutdown Waveforms: Under the dc-link voltage
of Vdc = 400 V and half-load current of Id = 130 Arms, the
overall waveforms of the line voltage vab and phase current ia
during the startup and shutdown of the GaN inverter are shown
in Fig. 28(a). The detailed zoomed-in waveforms are shown in
Fig. 28(b).
Additionally, the startup waveforms under full-load current
of Id = 260 Arms, along with the detailed views, are presented
in Fig. 29(a) and (b), respectively.
Full-Load Continuous Waveform:The designed GaN inverter
achieves a full power output Po = 100 kW, with the dc-link
voltage of Vdc = 400 V and a phase current RMS reaching
Id = 260 A. The full-load continuous operation waveforms are
illustrated in Fig. 30, providing detailed views of the line voltage
and three-phase currents.
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 15 ===
ZOU et al.: SYSTEMA TIC EFFICIENCY -DENSITY CO-OPTIMIZA TION OF 100 KW GAN TRACTION INVERTER: METHODOLOGY AND INTEGRA TION 16295
Fig. 27. Power test. (a) Conﬁguration of test rig and (b) output current
waveform.
Fig. 28. Experimental results of proposed GaN inverter under half-load con-
dition. (a) Startup and shutdown waveforms. (b) Zoomed-in startup waveforms.
C. Efﬁciency Assessment of Designed GaN Inverter Under
V arious Operation Points
Under the dc-link voltage of Vdc = 400 V , efﬁciency
measurements are performed at various output power points
across ac output frequencies ranging from 50 to 600 Hz.
The resulting efﬁciency curves of the GaN traction in-
verter under different output frequencies and power levels
are plotted in Fig. 31. Meanwhile, these efﬁciency curves
can be transformed into an efﬁciency map in “ac fre-
quency and output power” coordinate system, as illustrated
in Fig. 32.
Fig. 29. Experimental results of proposed GaN inverter under full-load con-
dition. (a) Overall startup waveforms. (b) Zoomed-in startup waveforms.
Fig. 30. Line voltage and phase current waveforms and details under full-load
steady-state operation.
Based on the efﬁciency test results, the GaN inverter demon-
strates a high-efﬁciency operating state even under light load
conditions. As the output ac frequency increases, the efﬁciency
improves and reaches the peak at 500 Hz, after which it begins
to decline slightly. At the ac output frequency of 500 Hz and
under a light load condition, efﬁciency reaches the peak ηmax
= 99.3%. Within the measured range of the experiment, the
efﬁciency exceeds 98% across 79.3% of the efﬁciency MAP
area. The GaN inverter showcases remarkable peak efﬁciency
and consistently high performance across the entire mission
proﬁles.
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 16 ===
16296 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 40, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2025
Fig. 31. Measured efﬁciency results of designed GaN traction inverter.
Fig. 32. Experimental efﬁciency map of designed GaN traction inverter.
D. WLTP Standard Drive Cycle Testing of the GaN Traction
Inverter
The Worldwide harmonized Light vehicles Test Procedure
(WLTP) is a globally adopted automotive testing standard.
By conducting WLTP drive cycle tests, the actual operating
performance of the designed GaN inverter prototype can be
effectively evaluated. Based on the rated power of prototype,
the equivalent WLTP operating control for the inverter is derived
and conﬁgured using vehicle dynamics model. Under the WLTP
drive cycle, the output current waveform of the designed GaN
inverter is shown in Fig. 33(a). The corresponding output power
and efﬁciency curves are recorded and presented in Fig. 33(b)
and (c), respectively.
The test results validate the feasibility of the designed proto-
type under cyclic driving conditions. Moreover, the efﬁciency
curve demonstrates the of GaN traction inverter rapid respon-
siveness in reaching the high-efﬁciency region across a wide
range of conditions.
E. Comparisons and Discussions
To ensure the effectiveness of the proposed co-design method
and demonstrate the advancements of the designed GaN proto-
type, key parameters from several commercial and prototype-
level traction inverters are compared in Table VII, revealing
notable contrasts.
Fig. 33. WLTP driving cycle test results of the GaN inverter. (a) Output current
waveform. (b) Output power curve. (c) Efﬁciency curve.
Regarding power density , current SiC experimental pro-
totypes demonstrate a clear advantage—for example, the
MARC·100 (70 kW/L) [55] and the UArk Prototype (86 kV A/L)
[58]. This may be attributed to the high-voltage and high-
temperature capabilities of SiC devices, as well as their more
mature technological development compared to GaN devices.
The proposed GaN prototype achieves a power density of 62.1
kW/L, closely approaching the ﬁrst-tier SiC designs and com-
parable to the commercial benchmark Porsche Taycan inverter
(62.3kW/L). Moreover, it signiﬁcantly outperforms most com-
mercial SiC inverters, indicating that GaN traction inverters have
strong potential to compete with SiC in high-density integration.
Regarding efﬁciency , the proposed GaN inverter achieves a
signiﬁcant breakthrough enabled by the high-speed and low-loss
characteristics of GaN devices. The prototype reaches a peak
efﬁciency of 99.3%, surpassing the other compared automotive
traction inverters. Moreover, among all full-power device types
listed in the table, GaN is the only one to exceed the 99%
efﬁciency boundary for traction inverters. Regarding simul-
taneous improvements in efﬁciency and power density ,t h e
proposed GaN traction inverter in this article represents a core
advancement. Traditionally, a tradeoff is often required between
high power density and high efﬁciency. However, this article
introduces a system-level “efﬁciency-density” co-optimization
methodology. The optimization and integrated design enable the
GaN traction inverter to maintain a high power density of 62.1
kW/L while achieving a peak efﬁciency of 99.3%. These results
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 17 ===
ZOU et al.: SYSTEMA TIC EFFICIENCY -DENSITY CO-OPTIMIZA TION OF 100 KW GAN TRACTION INVERTER: METHODOLOGY AND INTEGRA TION 16297
TABLE VII
COMPARISONS OF COMMERCIAL AND PROTOTYPE-LEVEL TRACTION INVERTER AND PROPOSED GANI NVERTER PROTOTYPE
demonstrate the technical feasibility of GaN power devices in
high-efﬁciency, high-density EV applications, offering a new
paradigm for next-generation advanced inverters.
VI. C ONCLUSION
This article introduces a co-design methodology of efﬁciency
and power density for the GaN traction inverter in EV applica-
tions, considering the design and integration of the key compo-
nent. GaN are a potential solution to break through the efﬁciency
and power density boundaries of SiC, whereas the utilization of
GaN devices in traction inverters remains underdeveloped in
terms of systematic design and integration. To overcome these
challenges, an “efﬁciency-density” co-design methodology for
GaN traction inverter is proposed, incorporating a comprehen-
sive analysis of key components. The “ η–ρ–fsw” design space
of the GaN inverter is systematically constructed, based on the
derived the “fsw–Ploss” model of the inverter, the “ fsw–Cdc–vc”
relationship of the dc-link capacitor, and the “ fsw–Rthhs–vhs”
constraint of the heat sink. Through pareto frontier analysis, the
co-optimization design point of efﬁciency and power density
is determined. Based on the co-design results, key components
are developed and integrated, including the high-power GaN
module with integrated gate driver, a dc-link capacitor with
high volume density, and a pin-ﬁn liquid cooling heat sink.
Ultimately, a 400 V / 100 kW GaN traction inverter prototype
is high-density integrated, utilizing a vertical stack structure of
“power module-heat sink-capacitor”. Experimental validation
conﬁrmed the superior performance of the designed prototype,
achieving a full-load power density of 62.1 kW/L and a peak
efﬁciency of 99.3%, thereby surpassing the existing “efﬁciency-
density” boundary of EV traction inverters (see Fig. 3). This
research serves as a valuable reference for the application of
GaN devices in EV . It offers signiﬁcant insights and practical
value for advancing the next generation of EV traction inverter
technology.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors gratefully acknowledge the technical collabo-
ration with United Automotive Electronic Systems Company,
Ltd. (UAES), SAIC V olkswagen Automotive Company, Ltd.,
and Shanghai Jieneng Automotive Technology Company, Ltd.
REFERENCES
[1] L. Woodley et al., “Climate impacts of critical mineral supply chain
bottlenecks for electric vehicle deployment,”Nat. Commun., vol. 15, 2024,
Art. no. 6813.
[2] C.-C. Tu et al., “Industry perspective on power electronics for electric
vehicles,” Nat. Rev. Elect. Eng., vol. 1, pp. 435–452, Jun. 2024.
[3] I. Husain et al., “Electric drive technology trends, challenges, and op-
portunities for future electric vehicles,” Proc. IEEE , vol. 109, no. 6,
pp. 1039–1059, Jun. 2021.
[4] C. S. Goli, S. Essakiappan, P . Sahu, M. Manjrekar, and N. Shah, “Review
of recent trends in design of traction inverters for electric vehicle appli-
cations,” in Proc. IEEE 12th Int. Symp. Power Electron. Distrib. Gener .
Syst., 2021, pp. 1–6.
[5] P . B. C. Costa, J. F. Silva, and S. F. Pinto, “Experimental evaluation of
SiC MOSFET and GaN HEMT losses in inverter operation,” in Proc. 45th
Annu. Conf. IEEE Ind. Electron. Soc. , 2019, pp. 6595–6600.
[6] J. W. Kolar et al., “Application of WBG power devices in future 3- Φvari-
able speed drive inverter systems: How to handle a double-edged sword,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Electron Devices Meeting , 2020, pp. 27.7.1–27.7.4.
[7] A. K. Morya et al., “Wide bandgap devices in AC electric drives: Op-
portunities and challenges,” IEEE Trans. Transp. Electriﬁc., vol. 5, no. 1,
pp. 3–20, Mar. 2019.
[8] D. Cittanti, E. Vico, and I. R. Bojoi, “New fom-based performance evalu-
ation of 600/650 V SiC and GaN semiconductors for next-generation EV
drives,” IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 51693–51707, 2022.
[9] J. P . Kozak et al., “Stability, reliability, and robustness of GaN power
devices: A review,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron. , vol. 38, no. 7,
pp. 8442–8471, Jul. 2023.
[10] J. Saha, S. S. Manohar, P . Sundararajan, and S. K. Panda, “Comparative
evaluation of SiC/GaN/Si-based drive-train inverters for light electric-
vehicles,” in Proc. IEEE Appl. Power Electron. Conf. Expo. , 2024,
pp. 822–829.
[11] K. Olejniczak et al., “A compact 110 kV A, 140 °C ambient, 105 °C liquid
cooled, all-SiC inverter for electric vehicle traction drives,” in Proc. IEEE
Appl. Power Electron. Conf. Expo., 2017, pp. 735–742.
[12] C. -W. Chang et al., “Thermal consideration and design for a 200-kW SiC-
based high-density three-phase inverter in more electric aircraft,” IEEE J.
Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron., vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 5910–5929, Dec. 2023.
[13] X. Zhao, R. Phukan, C. -W. Chang, R. Burgos, D. Dong, and P . Asfaux,
“Design and optimization of 2 ×211-kW SiC-based aircraft propulsion
inverter system with high power density and high efﬁciency,” in Proc.
IEEE Appl. Power Electron. Conf. Expo. , 2023, pp. 1009–1016.
[14] Z. Zeng, X. Zhang, F. Blaabjerg, H. Chen, and T. Sun, “Stepwise design
methodology and heterogeneous integration routine of air-cooled SiC
inverter for electric vehicle,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 35, no. 4,
pp. 3973–3988, Apr. 2020.
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 18 ===
16298 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 40, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2025
[15] N. Keshmiri, D. Wang, B. Agrawal, R. Hou, and A. Emadi, “Current
status and future trends of GaN HEMTs in electriﬁed transportation,”IEEE
Access, vol. 8, pp. 70553–70571, 2020.
[16] K. J. Chen et al., “GaN-on-Si power technology: Devices and applications,”
IEEE Trans. Electron Devices, vol. 64, no. 3, pp. 779–795, Mar. 2017.
[17] E. A. Jones, F. F. Wang, and D. Costinett, “Review of commercial GaN
power devices and GaN-based converter design challenges,” IEEE J.
Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron., vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 707–719, Sep. 2016.
[18] J. W. Kolar, J. Biela, S. Wafﬂer, T. Friedli, and U. Badstuebner, “Perfor-
mance trends and limitations of power electronic systems,” in Proc. 6th
Int. Conf. Integr . Power Electron. Syst., 2010, pp. 1–20.
[19] E. Gurpinar and A. Castellazzi, “Tradeoff study of heat sink and output
ﬁlter volume in a GaN HEMT based single-phase inverter,” IEEE Trans.
Power Electron., vol. 33, no. 6, pp. 5226–5239, Jun. 2018.
[20] S. Savulak, B. Guo, and S. Krishnamurthy, “Three-phase inverter employ-
ing PCB embedded GaN FETs,” in Proc. IEEE Appl. Power Electron.
Conf. Expo., 2018, pp. 1256–1260.
[21] A. I. Emon et al., “Design and optimization of gate driver integrated
multichip 3-D GaN power module,”IEEE Trans. Transp. Electriﬁc.,v o l .8 ,
no. 4, pp. 4391–4407, Dec. 2022.
[22] L. Zhu, Y . Y an, and H. Bai, “Design and transient analysis of a
650 V/150 A GaN power module with integrated bias power and gate-drive
circuit,” IEEE Trans. Compon., Packag. Manuf. Technol. , vol. 14, no. 3,
pp. 417–427, Mar. 2024.
[23] X. Zhao et al., “Design of ultracompact gate driver integrated with cur-
rent sensor and commutation path for a 211-kW three-level SiC aircraft
propulsion inverter,” IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron. , vol. 11,
no. 4, pp. 4077–4094, Aug. 2023.
[24] S. Chowdhury, E. Gurpinar, and B. Ozpineci, “Capacitor technologies:
Characterization, selection, and packaging for next-generation power
electronics applications,” IEEE Trans. Transp. Electriﬁc. , vol. 8, no. 2,
pp. 2710–2720, Jun. 2022.
[25] D. Cittanti et al., “Analysis, design, and experimental assessment of a
high power density ceramic dc-link capacitor for a 800 V 550 kV A
electric vehicle drive inverter,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. , vol. 59, no. 6,
pp. 7078–7091, Nov./Dec. 2023.
[26] H. Wang, C. Li, G. Zhu, Y . Liu, and H. Wang, “Model-based design
and optimization of hybrid dc-link capacitor banks,” IEEE Trans. Power
Electron., vol. 35, no. 9, pp. 8910–8925, Sep. 2020.
[27] H. Wang, Y . Liu, and H. Wang, “On the practical design of a two-
terminal active capacitor,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 34, no. 10,
pp. 10006–10020, Oct. 2019.
[28] M. Guacci, D. Zhang, M. Tatic, D. Bortis, J. W. Kolar, and Y . Kinoshita,
“Three-phase two-third-PWM buck-boost current source inverter system
employing dual-gate monolithic bidirectional GaN e-FETs,” CPSS Trans.
Power Electron. Appl., vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 339–354, Dec. 2019.
[29] M. U. Hassan, Y . Wu, A. I. Emon, Z. Y uan, and F. Luo, “Design con-
siderations and their optimization for a two-level GaN-based current
source inverter,” IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron., vol. 12, no. 3,
pp. 3173–3187, Jun. 2024.
[30] R. V . Erp, R. Soleimanzadeh, L. Nela, G. Kampitsis, and E. Matioli, “Co-
designing electronics with microﬂuidics for more sustainable cooling,”
Nature, vol. 585, pp. 211–216, 2020.
[31] G. Zhang, J. W. Pomeroy, M. E. Navarro, H. Cao, M. Kuball, and Y . Ding,
“3-D printed microjet impingement cooling for thermal management of
ultrahigh-power GaN transistors,” IEEE Trans. Compon., Packag. Manuf.
Technol., vol. 11, no. 5, pp. 748–754, May 2021.
[32] H. Amano et al., “The 2018 GaN power electronics roadmap,” J. Phys. D:
Appl. Phys., vol. 51, 2018, Art. no. 163001.
[33] H. C. P . Dymond et al., “Reduction of oscillations in a GaN bridge leg
using active gate driving with sub-ns resolution, arbitrary gate-resistance
patterns,” in Proc. IEEE Energy Convers. Congr . Expo., 2016, pp. 1–6.
[34] Q. Huang and A. Q. Huang, “V ariable frequency average current mode con-
trol for ZVS symmetrical dual-buck H-bridge all-GaN inverter,” IEEE J.
Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 4416–4427, Dec. 2020.
[35] H. Qin, X. Zheng, W. Wang, and Q. Xun, “A novel adaptive dead-time con-
trol method for GaN-based motor drives,” IEEE Trans. Energy Convers.,
vol. 40, no. 1, pp. 258–269, Mar. 2025.
[36] S. Hori, Y . Kanazawa, H. Akatuka, S. Wang, S. Doki, and H. Tadano,
“Application of variable carrier frequency control by using wide bandgap
semiconductors inverter for WLTC mode driving,” inProc. 22nd IEEE Int.
Conf. Ind. Technol., 2021, pp. 322–326.
[37] S. Satpathy, P . P . Das, S. Bhattacharya, and V . V eliadis, “Switching
modes for reduction of peak voltage transients in GaN-based three-level
ANPC inverter,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. , vol. 60, no. 6, pp. 9066–9079,
Nov./Dec. 2024.
[38] D. Cittanti, E. Vico, E. Armando, and R. Bojoi, “Analysis and con-
ceptualization of a 400V 100 kV A full-GaN double bridge inverter for
next-generation electric vehicle drives,” in Proc. IEEE Transp. Electriﬁc.
Conf. Expo, 2022, pp. 740–747.
[39] F. V ollmaier, N. Nain, J. Huber, J. W. Kolar, K. K. Leong, and B. Pandya,
“Performance evaluation of future T-type PFC rectiﬁer and inverter sys-
tems with monolithic bidirectional 600 V GaN switches,” in Proc. IEEE
Energy Convers. Congr . Expo., 2021, pp. 5297–5304.
[40] R. Phukan et al., “Characterization and mitigation of conducted emissions
in a SiC based three-level T-type motor drive for aircraft propulsion,”IEEE
Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 59, no. 3, pp. 3400–3412, May/Jun. 2023.
[41] J. E. Huber and J. W. Kolar, “Optimum number of cascaded cells for
high-power medium-voltage AC–DC converters,”IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top.
Power Electron., vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 213–232, Mar. 2017.
[42] J. Saha, D. Hazarika, N. B. Y . Gorla, and S. K. Panda, “Machine-
learning-aided optimization framework for design of medium-voltage
grid-connected solid-state transformers,” IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top. Power
Electron., vol. 9, no. 6, pp. 6886–6900, Dec. 2021.
[43] J. Saha, N. B. Y . Gorla, A. Subramaniam, and S. K. Panda, “Analysis of
modulation and optimal design methodology for half-bridge matrix-based
dual-active-bridge (MB-DAB) AC–DC converter,” IEEE J. Emerg. Sel.
Top. Power Electron., vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 881–894, Feb. 2022.
[44] A. I. Emon, A. B. M. Mustafeez-ul-Hassan, J. Kaplun, S. S. V ala, and
F. Luo, “A review of high-speed GaN power modules: State of the art,
challenges, and solutions,” IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron. ,
vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 2707–2729, Jun. 2023.
[45] P . Han, P . Liu, Q. Huang, Z. Chen, and A. Q. Huang, “A 650 V , 2.1 m ω
GaN half-bridge power module for 400V EV traction inverter application,”
in Proc. IEEE Energy Convers. Congr . Expo., 2022, pp. 1–6.
[46] M. T. Tran et al., “A high performance GaN power module with parallel
packaging for high current and low voltage traction inverter applications,”
IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron., vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 1188–1209,
Feb. 2025.
[47] A. I. Emon et al., “A 650V/60A gate driver integrated wire-bondless
multichip GaN module,” in Proc. IEEE 12th Int. Symp. Power Electron.
Distrib. Gener . Syst., 2021, pp. 1–6.
[48] B. Li, X. Y ang, K. Wang, H. Zhu, L. Wang, and W. Chen, “A compact
double-sided cooling 650V/30A GaN power module with low 3parasitic
parameters,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron. , vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 426–439,
Jan. 2022.
[49] Y . Sun et al., “Packaging a 100kW all-GaN-based three-level active neutral
point clamped power module for electric vehicle motor drives,” in Proc.
IEEE Energy Convers. Congr . Expo., 2023, pp. 5474–5479.
[50] Z. Dong, H. Y an, Y . Fan, X. Wu, and J. Zhang, “A 3-D integrated power
module of GaN HEMTs based on silver sintering processes,” IEEE Trans.
Power Electron., vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 2932–2937, Mar. 2024.
[51] H. Kong, L. Jia, L. Wang, Y . Y ao, F. Y ang, and H. Cui, “A ﬂexible-PCB on
DPC GaN power module with ultralow parasitic inductance,”IEEE Trans.
Power Electron., vol. 40, no. 4, pp. 5241–5251, Apr. 2025.
[52] S. Lu et al., “Double-sided cooling half-bridge power module of
650V/150A gallium nitride high-electron-mobility transistor,” IEEE
Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 71, no. 12, pp. 15578–15586, Dec. 2024.
[53] X. Tian et al., “PCB-on-DBC GaN power module design with high-density
integration and double-sided cooling,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron. ,
vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 507–516, Jan. 2024.
[54] T. Modeer, N. Pallo, T. Foulkes, C. B. Barth, and R. C. N. Pilawa-
Podgurski, “Design of a GaN-based interleaved nine-level ﬂying capacitor
multilevel inverter for electric aircraft applications,” IEEE Trans. Power
Electron., vol. 35, no. 11, pp. 12153–12165, Nov. 2020.
[55] W. Taha et al., “Holistic design and development of a 100-kW SiC-based
six-phase traction inverter for an electric vehicle application,”IEEE Trans.
Transp. Electriﬁc., vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 4616–4627, Jun. 2024.
[56] W. Taha, P . Azer, A. Poorfakhraei, S. Dhale, and A. Emadi, “Compre-
hensive analysis and evaluation of DC-link voltage and current ripples in
symmetric and asymmetric two-level six-phase voltage source inverters,”
IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 38, no. 2, pp. 2215–2229, Feb. 2023.
[57] TDK, “Film Capacitors–Capacitors for DC Link, Series/Type:
B3277∗X/Y/Z,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://www.tdk-electronics.
tdk.com/inf/20/20/ds/MKP_B32774XYZ_778XYZ.pdf
[58] T. Adamson et al., “An 800-V high-density traction inverter—Electro-
thermal characterization and low-inductance PCB bussing design,”IEEE J.
Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron., vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 3013–3023, Jun. 2022.
[59] E. Nazerian, R. Y u, Q. Huang, M. Heydari, H. S. Rizi, and A. Q. Huang,
“High efﬁciency, high power density 10 kW ﬂying capacitor converter
based on 650V GaN for 800V EV applications,” in Proc. IEEE Energy
Convers. Congr . Expo., 2023, pp. 1863–1869.
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 19 ===
ZOU et al.: SYSTEMA TIC EFFICIENCY -DENSITY CO-OPTIMIZA TION OF 100 KW GAN TRACTION INVERTER: METHODOLOGY AND INTEGRA TION 16299
Mingrui Zou (Student Member, IEEE) received the
B.Sc. degree in electrical engineering from Kun-
ming University of Science and Technology, Kun-
ming, China, in 2020. He is currently working
toward the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering with
Chongqing University, Chongqing, China.
His research interests include advanced packaging
and industrial application of wide bandgap power
devices.
Peng Sun(Student Member, IEEE) received the B.Sc.
and M.Sc. degrees in electrical engineering from
China University of Petroleum, Beijing, China, in
2017 and 2020, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree
in electrical engineering from Chongqing University,
Chongqing, China, in 2025.
From January 2024 to January 2025, he was a
Visiting Student with the Department of Engineering,
King’s College London, London, U.K. He is currently
a Postdoctoral Fellow with the School of Electri-
cal Engineering, Chongqing University, Chongqing,
China, in July 2015. His research interests include advanced packaging and
industrial application of wide bandgap power devices.
Zheng Zeng (Member, IEEE) received the B.Sc.
degree from Wuhan University, China, in 2009, and
the Ph.D. degree from Zhejiang University, China, in
2014, both in electrical engineering.
In July 2014, he was with the School of Electri-
cal Engineering, Chongqing University, Chongqing,
China, where he was promoted to an Associate Pro-
fessor in August 2017 and a Full Professor in Au-
gust 2022. From July 2018 to July 2019, he was
also a Research Fellow with the School of Electrical
and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological
University, Singapore. His research interests include advanced packaging and
industrial application of wide bandgap power devices.
Yulei Wang (Student Member, IEEE) received the
B.Sc. degree from China University of Mining and
Technology, Xuzhou, China, in 2019, and the M.Sc.
degree from Chongqing University, Chongqing,
China, in 2023, both in electrical engineering. He is
currently working toward the Ph.D. degree in elec-
trical and computer engineering with McMaster Uni-
versity, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
His research interests include advanced packaging
and industrial application of wide bandgap power
devices.
Jiakun Gong received the B.Sc. degree in electri-
cal engineering in 2022 from Chongqing University,
Chongqing, China, where he is currently working
toward the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering.
His research interests include advanced packaging
and industrial application of wide bandgap power
devices.
Yuxi Liang received the B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees
in electrical engineering in 2021 and 2024, re-
spectively, from Chongqing University, Chongqing,
China, where she is currently working toward the
Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering.
Her research interests include advanced packaging
and industrial application of wide bandgap power
devices.
Liang Wang (Student Member, IEEE) received the
B.Sc. degree from Chongqing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Chongqing, China, in 2016,
and the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees from Chongqing
University, Chongqing, China, in 2019 and 2024, all
in electrical engineering.
He was a Visiting Student with the Department of
Engineering, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
U.K. His research interests include advanced packag-
ing and industrial application of wide bandgap power
devices.
Authorized licensed use limited to: KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Downloaded on September 19,2026 at 19:21:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 